Tropic Trooper, a threat actor group that targets government, military, healthcare, transportation, and high-tech industries in Taiwan, the Philippines, and Hong Kong, has been active since 2011. The group was reportedly using spear-phishing emails with weaponized attachments to exploit known vulnerabilities. Primarily motivated by information theft and espionage, the group has also been seen adopting different strategies such as fine-tuning tools with new behaviors and going mobile with surveillanceware. We found that Tropic Trooper’s latest activities center on targeting Taiwanese and the Philippine military’s physically isolated networks through a USBferry attack (the name derived from a sample found in a related research). We also observed targets among military/navy agencies, government institutions, military hospitals, and even a national bank. The group employs USBferry, a USB malware that performs different commands on specific targets, maintains stealth in environments, and steals critical data through USB storage. We started tracking this particular campaign in 2018, and our analysis shows that it uses a fake executable decoy and a USB trojan strategy to steal information. Based on data from the Trend Micro™ Smart Protection Network™ security infrastructure, USBferry attacks have been active since 2014. We found the group was focused on stealing defense-, ocean-, and ship-related documents from target networks, which led us to believe that Tropic Trooper’s main purpose is to exfiltrate confidential information or intelligence. Tropic Trooper is well aware that military or government organizations may have more robust security in their physically isolated environments (i.e., the use of biometrics or USB use in a quarantined machine before an air-gapped environment). The group then targets potentially unsecured related organizations that could serve as jumping-off points for attacks. For instance, we observed Tropic Trooper move from a military hospital to the military’s physically isolated network. This blog post provides an overview of the USB malware called USBferry and its capabilities, as well as the other tools used to infiltrate physically isolated environments. Further details, including indicators of compromise (IoCs), can be read in the technical brief.We first encountered the malware from a PricewaterhouseCoopers report that mentioned a sample related to Tropic Trooper but did not include a detailed analysis. We looked into it further and discovered many versions of it, including several program database (PDB) strings. For one thing, the USBferry malware already has at least three versions, with different variants and components, at the time of writing. Here are the noteworthy points we gathered during analysis: In our technical brief, we broke down how Tropic Trooper has changed the way it uses the abovementioned USBferry versions in attacks. The group achieves infection by employing the USB worm infection strategy and ferrying a malware installer via USB into an air-gapped host machine.Here we will discuss the notable changes in the group’s latest attack chain that uses version UF1.0 20160226 (detected by Trend Micro as TROJ_USBLODR.ZAHBA): This version checks for network connectivity; if it finds that the network is unavailable, it tries to collect information from the target machine and copy the collected data into USB storage. This way, the USB exfiltrates the information and sends it back to the C&C server. Some backdoors used by Tropic Trooper use injection to execute its routines, while others execute directly and run itself consistently. The group also uses steganography to mask their backdoor routines and evade anti-malware and network perimeter detection. To find the full list of the backdoors we analyzed, check out our technical brief.The overview provided above highlights how putting critical information in physically isolated networks is not a bulletproof solution for defending against cyberespionage. Steganography isn’t just used to deliver encrypted payloads; it can also be used to transfer information to a C&C server. Multiple hacking tools and components can also help facilitate successful attacks on different networks and environments. Threat actors like Tropic Trooper can also use an invisible web shell to hide its C&C server location and make incident response tricky.The latest developments with Tropic Trooper indicate that they are well-prepared to target government institutions and military agencies for stolen intelligence. The group also takes a long time to perform reconnaissance and consequently infiltrate physically isolated networks. This research also underscores how threat actors could see potentially vulnerable targets as launch points for extending their attack attempts to other, more critical targets. Understanding attack tactics and techniques can provide the needed context for assessing potential impact and adopting defensive strategies. Here are some measures that organizations can practice to thwart advanced persistent threats with security that employs actionable threat intelligence, network-wide visibility, and timely threat protection:Organizations can take advantage of the Trend Micro Apex One™ solution, which provides actionable insights, expanded investigative capabilities, and centralized visibility across the network through a variety of threat detection capabilities such as behavioral analysis that protects against malicious scripts, injection, ransomware, memory, and browser attacks. A multilayered security solution such as Trend Micro™ Deep Discovery™ can also be considered; it provides in-depth analysis and proactive response to attacks using exploits and other similar threats through specialized engines, custom sandboxing, and seamless correlation across the entire attack lifecycle, allowing it to detect these attacks even without any engine or pattern updates. Read our technical brief, which discusses in full our analyses of Tropic Trooper’s recent activities, the USBferry malware, and IoCs.