Mandiant assesses with high confidence that APT43 is a moderately-sophisticated cyber operator that supports the interests of the North Korean regime. Campaigns attributed to APT43 include strategic intelligence collection aligned with Pyongyang’s geopolitical interests, credential harvesting and social engineering to support espionage activities, and financially-motivated cybercrime to fund operations. Tracked since 2018, APT43 collection priorities align with the mission of the Reconnaissance General Bureau (RGB), North Korea's main foreign intelligence service. The group’s focus on foreign policy and nuclear security issues supports North Korea’s strategic and nuclear ambitions. However, the group’s focus on health-related verticals throughout the majority of 2021, likely in support of pandemic response efforts, highlights its responsiveness to shifting priorities from Pyongyang.Although the overall targeting reach is broad, the ultimate aim of campaigns is most likely centered around enabling North Korea’s weapons program, including: collecting information about international negotiations, sanctions policy, and other country’s foreign relations and domestic politics as these may affect North Korea’s nuclear ambitions.Campaigns attributed to APT43 are closely aligned with state interests and correlate strongly with geopolitical developments that affect Kim Jong-un and the hermit state’s ruling elite. Since Mandiant has been tracking APT43, they have consistently conducted espionage activity against South Korean and U.S. organizations with a stake in security issues affecting the Korean peninsula. APT43 most commonly leverages tailored spear-phishing emails to gain access to victim information. However the group also engages in various other activities to support collecting strategic intelligence, including using spoofed websites for credential harvesting and carrying out cybercrime to fund itself.We consider cyber espionage to be the primary mission for APT43 and available data indicates that the group’s other activities are carried out to support collecting strategic intelligence.We have some indication that APT43 also carries out internal monitoring of other North Korean operations, including noncyber activities. APT43 has compromised individual espionage actors, including those within its own operations. However it is unclear if this is intentional for self-monitoring purposes or accidental and indicative of poor operational security.APT43 operates credential collection campaigns to directly compromise financial data, PII, and client data from entities within the academic, manufacturing, and national security industries—especially in South Korea. In particular, the group registers domains masquerading as popular search engines, web platforms, and cryptocurrency exchanges in relevant target countries of interest. We believe these credentials are used to support operations that further APT43 missions.APT43 has targeted cryptocurrency and cryptocurrency-related services. In contrast to other North Korean groups such as APT38, which are likely primarily tasked to bring in funds for the regime, APT43 most likely carries out such operations to sustain its own operations. We assess with high confidence that APT43 is a state-sponsored cyber operator that acts in support of the North Korean government’s wider geopolitical aims.APT43 operations have at times, overlapped with those of other North Korean cyber espionage operators. However, we assess these groups to be distinct and separate and, believe the overlaps are likely the result of ad hoc collaborations or other limited resource sharing. These overlaps principally take the form of malware families that had historically been used by a single North Korean cluster being employed by additional actors.Open sources often include additional operations in public reporting on “Kimsuky” activity. However, Mandiant continues to track these separately, especially those that leverage malware families such as KONNI and related tools CABRIDE and PLANEPATCH. Although these clusters of activity have overlaps with APT43, we believe that these links are tenuous and are the work of a separate group.APT43 relies on a relatively large toolkit composed of both non-public malware and widely available tools. Most open source reporting on APT43 tracks the group using LATEOP (known publicly as “BabyShark”), but we have observed a steady evolution and expansion of the operation’s malware library over time. Some of the tools borrow code heavily from preceding tools (Figure 8), implementing improvements and adding features.Barring a drastic change in North Korea’s national priorities, we expect that APT43 will remain highly prolific in carrying out espionage campaigns and financially-motivated activities supporting these interests. We believe North Korea has become increasingly dependent on its cyber capabilities and, APT43’s persistent and continuously-developing operations reflect the country’s sustained investment and reliance on groups like APT43. As demonstrated by the group’s sudden but temporary shift towards healthcare and pharmaceutical-related targeting, APT43 is highly responsive to the demands of Pyongyang’s leadership. Although spear-phishing and credential collection against government, military, and diplomatic organizations have been core taskings for the group, APT43 ultimately modifies its targeting and tactics, techniques and procedures to suit its sponsors, including carrying out financially-motivated cybercrime as needed to support the regime.