The information provided herein is for general information and educational purposes only. It is not intended and should not be construed to constitute legal advice. The information contained herein may not be applicable to all situations and may not reflect the most current situation. Nothing contained herein should be relied on or acted upon without the benefit of legal advice based on the particular facts and circumstances presented and nothing herein should be construed otherwise. Trend Micro reserves the right to modify the contents of this document at any time without prior notice. Translations of any material into other languages are intended solely as a convenience. Translation accuracy is not guaranteed nor implied. If any questions arise related to the accuracy of a translation, please refer to the original language official version of the document. Any discrepancies or differences created in the translation are not binding and have no legal effect for compliance or enforcement purposes. Although Trend Micro uses reasonable efforts to include accurate and up-to-date information herein, Trend Micro makes no warranties or representations of any kind as to its accuracy, currency, or completeness. You agree that access to and use of and reliance on this document and the content thereof is at your own risk. Trend Micro disclaims all warranties of any kind, express or implied. Neither Trend Micro nor any party involved in creating, producing, or delivering this document shall be liable for any consequence, loss, or damage, including direct, indirect, special, consequential, loss of business profits, or special damages, whatsoever arising out of access to, use of, or inability to use, or in connection with the use of this document, or any errors or omissions in the content thereof. Use of this information constitutes acceptance for use in an “as is” condition. We have been closely following waves of the group’s targeted credential phishing attacks and have collected thousands of email samples that the Pawn Storm actors sent out since 2014. This data allowed us to see new trends in Pawn Storm’s tactics, techniques, and procedures (TTPs). For instance, in May 2019, we observed something interesting: Pawn Storm started using hacked email addresses of numerous high-profile targets to send credential spam messages. The actor connects to a dedicated server using the OpenVPN option of a commercial VPN provider and then uses compromised email credentials to send out credential spam via a commercial email service provider. The group used this scheme over an extended period in 2019 to 2020, with the most compromised email accounts belonging to defense companies in the Middle East. The reason for the shift to the use of compromised email accounts of (mostly) defense companies in the Middle East is unclear. Pawn Storm could be attempting to evade spam filtering at the cost of making some of their successful compromises known to security companies. However, we did not notice a significant change in successful inbox deliveries of the group’s spam campaigns, making it difficult to understand the rationale behind the change in methodology.Figure 3 shows the breakdown of industries whose email addresses were abused to send out credential phishing spam. How Pawn Storm could be getting the email credentials of their targets is a point of interest. Malware could have been utilized to achieve this, but the group could also be using a method that involves brute-force attacks. In 2019, Pawn Storm performed daily probes on numerous email servers and Microsoft Exchange Autodiscover servers across the world. The actor group was connecting to a variety of Transmission Control Protocol (TCP) ports that were related to email. We observed that most of the probing were aimed at TCP port 443 (used by webmail and Microsoft Exchange Autodiscover services), while email protocols like the Internet Message Access Protocol (IMAP) [143, 993], the Post Office Protocol 3 (POP3) [110, 995], and the Simple Mail Transfer Protocol (SMTP) [465, 587] were also checked. This was done in an apparent attempt to look for vulnerable systems, brute force credentials, exfiltrate email data, and send out spam waves. We have data on months of probing against hundreds of email servers worldwide and can thus make semi-statistical breakdowns by industry and by country or region. These breakdowns strongly depend on the different interests of Pawn Storm that vary over time. Below we listed a sample of Pawn Storm’s typical targets from August 2019 to November 2019. For the entries in red, we suspect Pawn Storm performed large-scale data exfiltration, based on the significant amount of data that was transferred in those timeframes and the duration of the connections made. We found some of the group’s typical targets in the list, such as armed forces, defense companies, governments, law firms, political parties, and universities. Surprisingly, the list also included a couple of private schools in France and the United Kingdom, and even a kindergarten in Germany. Pawn Storm appeared to do large-scale scans on TCP ports 445 and 1433 as well, but in a way that wasn’t subtle. The same IP address that has been hosting some of Pawn Storm’s websites (for phishing free webmail credentials of high-profile users) has been scanning port 445 and port 1433 of computer servers across the world. This appears to be an attempt to find vulnerable servers running Microsoft SQL Server and Directory Services. The scans were done from the IP address 185.245.85[.]178 from November until December 2019. It should be noted that the exact statistics could differ in other time ranges because the targets of Pawn Storm’s scanning depend on specific campaigns. The scans were done from the IP address 185.245.85[.]178 from November to December 2019. Similarly, the exact statistics will be different for other time ranges because the targets of Pawn Storm’s scanning depend on specific campaigns that have a start and an end. For over two years, we were able to observe a significant number of Pawn Storm’s credential phishing campaigns through careful analysis of DNS SPF (Sender Policy Framework) requests of the domains they used. In the spring of 2017, we noticed that the Pawn Storm actors had assigned particular domain names to some of their server images. These servers were repeatedly used to send credential phishing spam emails to high-profile targets that used free webmail services. Pawn Storm did not bother to register these domain names though, so we took the opportunity to register them and possibly get more information on their operations. We set up an infrastructure to passively log all DNS requests for the five domain names. (It is worth noting that Pawn Storm has since ceased to use these five domains since summer of 2019; the group has been using a generic server named server[.]com at the time of writing.) Some of the domain names, which were free to register in 2017, refer to the internal naming of Pawn Storm’s server images. This enabled Trend Micro to gather data on the group’s credential phishing campaigns from 2017 to 2019. It appears that receiving email servers send DNS SPF requests for the domain names used in the Extended HELO (EHLO) command as part of their spam filtering algorithms.These campaigns included spam waves against two U.S.-based free webmail providers, one Russian free webmail provider, and one Iranian webmail provider. Pawn Storm’s continued use of the domain names also put the actor at risk of revealing some of their other operations, such as moving around their server image from one IP address to another and management tasks of the server. Even for an advanced threat actor like Pawn Storm, it takes a lot of discipline to prevent leaks related to DNS requests outside of careful VPN connection setups that obscure their home base.Pawn Storm regularly uses the OpenVPN option of commercial VPN service providers to connect to a dedicated host that sends out spam. The dedicated spam-sending servers used particular domain names in the EHLO command of the SMTP sessions with the targets’ mail servers. Figure 8 shows the credential phishing campaigns against Yahoo users, coming from a particular server image owned by Pawn Storm. It is measured by incoming DNS SPF requests. The vertical axis uses a logarithmic scale. We could correlate the statistics of email campaigns derived from our DNS monitoring with the email samples we gathered over the years. Although our dataset of actual emails is smaller, the two datasets were consistent with each other. If our previous reports on Pawn Storm is any indication, the threat actor group has plenty of resources that allow them to run lengthy campaigns, determined in the pursuit of their targets. Their attacks, which range from compromising DNS settings and tabnabbing4 to creating watering holes and taking advantage of zero-days,5 have been nothing short of sophisticated. And as evidenced by their recent activities, we expect even more direct attacks against webmail and cloud services that don’t rely on malware. We have seen Pawn Storm’s activities since 2004, and we expect the threat actor group to be active for years to come. Since Pawn Storm uses a wide range of tools and tactics, organizations must secure their perimeter to reduce the risks from any potential entry or jump-off points. Here are some measures users and organizations can take to defend against Pawn Storm’s methods: