This document is the property of Doctor Web, Ltd. (hereinafter - Doctor Web). No part of this document may be reproduced, published or transmitted in any form or by any means for any purpose without proper attribution. Doctor Web develops and distributes Dr.Web information security solutions which provide efficient protection from malicious software and spam. Doctor Web customers can be found among home users from all over the world and in government enterprises, small companies and nationwide corporations. Dr.Web antivirus solutions are well known since 1992 for continuing excellence in malware detection and compliance with international information security standards. State certificates and awards received by the Dr.Web solutions, as well as the globally widespread use of our products are the best evidence of exceptional trust to the company products. In October 2021, one of Kazakhstan’s telecommunication companies contacted Doctor Web, with suspicion of malware in the corporate network. During the first look, we found backdoors that were previously only used in targeted attacks. During the investigation, we also found out that the company’s internal servers had been compromised since 2019. For several years, Backdoor.PlugX.93 and BackDoor.Whitebird.30, the Fast Reverse Proxy (FRP) utilities, and RemCom have been the main attackers' tools. Because of the hackers' mistake, we got a unique opportunity to study the lists of victims and find out what backdoor management tools were used. Based on the acquired information, we concluded that the hacker group specialized in compromising the Asian companies’ mail servers with Microsoft Exchange software installed. That said, we also found victims from other countries, including:The logs collected along with the command and control server included victims infected from August 2021 to early November of the same year. Yet, in some cases, BackDoor.Whitebird.30 was installed not only on the server running Microsoft Exchange, but on domain controllers, too. Based on the tools, methods, and infrastructure used, we conclude that the Calypso APT hacker group is behind the attack.Command and control server for BackDoor.Whitebird.30 calls Remote Rover. It allows hackers to remotely launch applications, update the backdoor configuration, download and upload files. Besides that, you can use a command shell via Remote Rover. This is what the control server interface looks like:During the investigation of the targeted attack, Doctor Web virus analysts found and described several backdoors and trojans. It’s worth noting that the attackers managed to remain undetected for as long as other targeted attack incidents. A hacker group compromised a telecommunications company's network more than two years ago. Doctor Web specialists recommend regularly checking network resources’ efficiency and timely fixing failures that may indicate the presence of malware on the network. Data compromise is one of targeted attacks’ main dangers, but the long-term presence of intruders is also a cause for concern. Such development allows them to control the organization’s work for many years and gain access to especially sensitive information at the proper time. If you suspect malicious activity in the corporate network, the best option is to contact the Doctor Web virus laboratory for qualified help. Dr.Web FixIt! helps you detect malware on servers and workstations. Taking adequate measures timely will minimize the damage and prevent the serious consequences of targeted attacks.