Since April 2018, an APT group (Blind Eagle, APT-C-36) suspected coming from South America carried out continuous targeted attacks against Colombian government institutions as well as important corporations in financial sector, petroleum industry, professional manufacturing, etc. Till this moment, 360 Threat Intelligence Center captured 29 bait documents, 62 Trojan samples and multiple related malicious domains in total. Attackers are targeting Windows platform and aiming at government institutions as well as big companies in Colombia. The first sample being captured was in April 2018 and since that we observed a lot more related ones. Attackers like to use spear-fishing email with password protected RAR attachment to avoid being detected by the email gateway. Decryption password is provided in the mail body and inside the attachment it is a MHTML macro based document with the .doc suffix. Its purpose is to implant Imminent backdoor and gain a foothold into the target network which may make the follow up lateral movement easier to implement. After analyzing the last modified time of the encrypted documents, character set (locale) of the MHTML files, author names used by attackers, as well as elements like geopolitics in APT attacks, 360 Threat Intelligence Center suspect attackers come from South America and are in the UTC -4 time zone (or adjacent ones). After performing investigations on the classified victims, we find the attacker targets big companies and government agencies in Colombia. The purpose is to implant Imminent backdoor to gain a foothold into the target network which may make the follow up lateral movement easier to implement. Based upon victims’ backgrounds, the attacker is focusing on strategic-level intelligence and may also have motivations to steal business intelligence and intellectual properties.After performing investigations on the classified victims, we find the attacker targets big companies and government agencies in Colombia. The purpose is to implant Imminent backdoor to gain a foothold into the target network which may make the follow up lateral movement easier to implement. Based upon victims’ backgrounds, the attacker is focusing on strategic-level intelligence and may also have motivations to steal business intelligence and intellectual properties.Some malicious domains used by the attacker also masquerade as Colombian government websites. For example, “diangovcomuiscia.com” looks like the official one “muiscia.dian.gov.co” that belongs to the National Directorate of Taxes and Customs. After monitoring and correlating the APT attack, 360 Threat Intelligence Center discovered multiple related emails to attack Colombian government agencies, financial institutions and large enterprises. Based upon the above work, we collected the following spear- fishing emails, bait documents and the corresponding victims. Ecopetrol, also known as Colombian Petroleum Co. ( www.ecopetrol.com.co), is the largest and primary petroleum company in Colombia.The document was disguised as originating from the National Directorate of Taxes and Customs (www.dian.gov.co):Hocol was founded in 1956. It is a subsidiary of Ecopetrol and offers hydrocarbon exploration and production services.The attacker pretends to come from the National Directorate of Taxes and Customs: Almaviva is a Colombian logistics company, it optimizes the supply chain through the safe management of processes and tools to ensure the efficiency of logistics operations. The attacker masquerades as the National Administrative Department of Statistics to launch the attack.The Banco Agrario is a Colombian state financial institution founded in 1999 to provide banking services in the rural sectors. The bait document was spoofed from the Colombian National Cyber Police (caivirtual.policia.gov.co):Banco de Occidente is one of the largest Colombian banks. It is part of the Grupo Aval conglomerate of financial services in Colombia.The bait document was spoofed from the Office of the Attorney General. Byington Colombia provides business credit management and information solutions. Its business credit information services include business and credit information, commercial collection, and marketing services. The document was disguised as originating from the National Directorate of Taxes and Customs: 360 Threat Intelligence Center conducted a detailed analysis of the attack process based on the common attack techniques used by the APT group. On February 14, 2019, 360 Threat Intelligence Center monitored attacks by the APT group again. The corresponding mail was not found by using the recently captured bait document (MD5:0c97d7f6a1835a3fe64c1c625ea109ed). However, after investigation we found another similar bait document (MD5: 3de286896c8eb68a21a6dcf7dae8ec97) and related target attack mail (MD5: f2d5cb747110b43558140c700dbf0e5e). The mail was disguised from the Colombian National Civil Registry and attacked the Colombian National Institute for the Blind. When attacking different targets, attackers carefully consider how to spoof the source of the message to make it look more credible. For example, by masquerading the National Civil Registry to attack the Institute for the Blind, pretending to be the Tax and Customs Administration to attack companies with international trade, disguising as the judiciary and immigration authorities against banks and multinational corporation branches located in Colombia. The attacker also carefully constructs the content of the message to appear originating from the forged institution and relating to the target. The following picture shows the translation of the corresponding mail disguised as originating from the judiciary of Colombia to attack the ATH Colombia branch. The email attachment is encrypted and stored in the compressed package, and a decryption password is provided in the mail body to bypass the security detection of the email gateway.After analyzing the mail, we found that the attacker used approaches such as proxy and VPN to hide its IP address when sending emails. So the sender’s real IP has not yet been obtained, only to figure out that these messages are sent through IDCs in Florida, USA. Some related IP addresses are as follows: All of the bait documents are MHTML ones with malicious macro embedded and the .doc suffix to bypass detection. Below is an example of bait document captured by 360 Threat Intelligence Center in February 2019:The document is disguised from the Colombian National Civil Registry and uses Spanish to prompt the victim to enable the macro code in order to execute the subsequent payload. When the macro code gets executed, it calls the Document_Open function automatically. Function Document_Open first calls the Main function to download binary data from hxxp://diangovcomuiscia.com/media/a.jpg and save as %AppData%\1.exe (MD5: ef9f19525e7862fb71175c0bbfe74247).