 In July 2020, Mandiant Threat Intelligence released a public 
report1 detailing an ongoing cyber-enabled influence campaign 
we named “Ghostwriter.” The campaign has primarily targeted 
audiences in Lithuania, Latvia and Poland with narratives 
critical of NATO’s presence in Eastern Europe. Since that 
report, we have identified over twenty additional incidents 
that we believe are part of Ghostwriter activity that we have 
reported on to Mandiant Intelligence customers.The narratives, targeting, and tactics, technique and procedures 
(TTPs) associated with Ghostwriter activity have expanded. 
For example, five operations took place between October 2020 
and January 2021 in which the social media accounts of Polish 
officials were compromised and used to disseminate narratives 
seemingly intended to discredit the Polish government and to 
widen existing domestic political divisions. We now also assess with high confidence that UNC1151, 
a suspected state-sponsored cyber espionage actor that 
engages in credential harvesting and malware campaigns, 
conducts at least some components of Ghostwriter activity. 
Beginning at the start of 2021, UNC1151 expanded its credential 
theft activity to target German individuals, with a focus on 
politicians. We do not associate UNC1151 with any other 
previously tracked threat groups. In July 2020, Mandiant Threat Intelligence released a 
public report2 detailing an ongoing influence campaign 
we named “Ghostwriter.” Ghostwriter is a cyber-enabled 
influence campaign which primarily targets audiences 
in Lithuania, Latvia and Poland and promotes narratives 
critical of the North Atlantic Treaty Organization’s (NATO) 
presence in Eastern Europe. Since releasing our public 
report, we have continued to investigate and report on 
Ghostwriter activity to Mandiant Intelligence customers. 
We tracked new incidents as they happened and identified 
activity extending back years before we formally identified 
the campaign in 2020. This report provides an update on 
Ghostwriter, highlighting two significant developments.
 We have observed an expansion of narratives, targeting 
and TTPs associated with Ghostwriter activity since we 
released our July 2020 report. For example, several recent 
operations have heavily leveraged the compromised social 
media accounts of Polish officials on the political right to 
publish content seemingly intended to create domestic 
political disruption in Poland rather than foment distrust of 
NATO. These operations, conducted in Polish and English, 
appear to have largely not relied on the dissemination 
vectors we have typically observed with previous 
Ghostwriter activity, such as website compromises, 
spoofed emails or posts from inauthentic personas. Recently obtained technical evidence now allows us to 
assess with high confidence that UNC1151, a suspected 
state-sponsored cyber espionage actor that engages in 
credential harvesting and malware campaigns, conducts 
at least some components of Ghostwriter influence 
activity; current intelligence gaps, including gaps 
pertaining to website compromises and the operation of 
false personas, do not allow us to conclusively attribute 
all aspects of the Ghostwriter campaign to UNC1151 at 
this time. We do not associate UNC1151 with any other 
previously tracked threat groups. Since the start of 
2021, UNC1151 has expanded its credential theft activity 
to target German politicians. This targeting has been 
publicly reported in the German Tagesschau.3
 The appendices of this report include an exhaustive 
table of incidents and operations we currently associate 
with Ghostwriter activity, a detailed case study of a 
recent operation and indicators of compromise (IOCs) 
related to UNC1151. While we have continued to track and investigate 
Ghostwriter influence activity that follows the typical 
operational model laid out in our July 2020 public report, 
we have also observed an expansion of the narratives, 
targeting and TTPs associated with Ghostwriter activity. For 
example, in January, we began investigating five operations 
that took place between October 2020 and January 2021 
in which the social media accounts of Polish officials were 
compromised and used to disseminate narratives seemingly 
intended to discredit the Polish government domestically 
and to widen existing domestic political divisions.Overall, narratives promoted in the five operations 
appear to represent a concerted effort to discredit the 
ruling political coalition, widen existing domestic political 
divisions and project an image of coalition disunity in 
Poland (Table 1). In each incident, content was primarily 
disseminated via Twitter, Facebook, and/or Instagram 
accounts belonging to Polish politicians, all of whom have 
publicly claimed their accounts were compromised at the 
times the posts were made. The incidents also touched on 
some consistent themes: two involved the dissemination of 
compromising photos of officials and people with whom 
they are associated, two falsely implicated the respective 
officials as criticizing female activists and one falsely 
claimed that an official wanted to renounce her affiliation 
with the PiS party. In some cases, we have relied on 
media reporting to reconstruct particular details of some 
operations’ content as the relevant posts were no longer 
available at the time of investigation. In others, we were 
able to independently confirm the content of posts.
 In a second phase of dissemination following the January 
18, 2021 incident involving the compromised social 
media accounts of Marek Suski and Ewa Szarzyńska, 
additional TTPs typically observed in historical Ghostwriter 
operations were also used: On January 20, 2021, two 
days after the operation’s Polish-language content was 
disseminated, a potentially fabricated English-language 
article was published and disseminated on multiple 
websites by single-use accounts that appear to be 
impersonating the real Polish journalist and radio host 
Jan Wróbel. The specific websites used to publish and 
disseminate this content have been used in previous 
Ghostwriter operations. Another suspected Ghostwriter operation promoted 
a narrative between October 22-26, 2020, suggesting 
that NATO is preparing its military for a war with Russia, 
which would ostensibly take place in Poland, Latvia and 
Lithuania, a narrative consistent with those promoted 
in past Ghostwriter operations that appear intended to 
undermine NATO’s presence in—and security cooperation 
with— those three specific countries. In addition to 
spreading this narrative via a fabricated article published 
to multiple websites, including sites used in previous 
Ghostwriter operations, links to that article were also 
disseminated via posts by multiple compromised social 
media accounts belonging to Polish officials. We observed 
overlaps between this operation and some of the Polish 
social media compromises referenced above.former member of the Polish parliament from the PiS 
party: Joanna Borowiak (Twitter), Marcin Kamil Duszek 
(Facebook) and Andrzej Melak (Facebook). The fabricated article concerned a NATO defense 
minister’s meeting that took place on October 22, 
2020, and appears to have appropriated text from a 
real news article reporting on that meeting.12 However, 
the fabricated article was published under a different 
title and contained additional text. Both the new title 
and inserted text supported the narrative that Poland 
is at the epicenter of the coming war between NATO 
and Russia. The article was published to at least two 
Polish-language news sites, Prawy.pl and Obserwator 
Nadodrzański (ono24.info), and to the county 
administration website (wschowa.info) for Wschowie, 
which is in Poland’s Lubusz province (Figure 2). We were 
not able to independently determine whether these 
websites were compromised in this instance (a common 
tactic seen in previous Ghostwriter operations), but we 
note that Prawy.pl has been compromised as part of 
previous Ghostwriter operations and both Prawy.pl and 
wschowa.info have since removed the article.We assess with high confidence that UNC1151, a suspected 
state-sponsored cyber espionage group, conducts at 
least some components of Ghostwriter influence activity; 
current intelligence gaps, including gaps pertaining to 
website compromises and the operation of false personas, 
do not allow us to conclusively attribute all aspects of the 
Ghostwriter campaign to UNC1151 at this time. UNC1151 
intrusion activity has been active since at least 2017 and 
has included credential harvesting campaigns targeting 
European government and media entities as well as some 
instances of using spear phishing to distribute malware. We 
do not associate UNC1151 with any other previously tracked 
threat groups and do not make any further attribution 
assessment at this time. Appendix 3: Technical Annex 
presents additional detail and MITRE ATT&CK techniques 
(T1547.001, T1218.005, T1059.005, and T1071). UNC1151 has conducted numerous campaigns designed to 
steal credentials and deliver malware via spear phishing. 
The group uses an extensive array of domains that mimic 
major and regional web services and host pages designed 
to trick a victim into entering their credentials. Less 
frequently, the group has distributed malware via phishing 
emails with malicious attachments, including RADIOSTAR, 
VIDEOKILLER and HALFSHELL malware. Credential Harvesting Operations:13 UNC1151 was first 
uncovered conducting credential harvesting operations 
targeting government, military and media entities in 
Poland, Ukraine and the Baltics. UNC1151 has also targeted 
personal email accounts of individuals of interest to 
them, such as journalists and activists. Since the start of 
2021, this credential theft activity has expanded to target 
German individuals, with a focus on politicians. – UNC1151 credential harvesting domains often have 
base domains or subdomains which spoof the 
organizations they seek to phish or popular (and 
sometimes regional) web services.For example, on March 4, 2020 Mandiant Threat 
Intelligence discovered a spear-phishing email 
using a spoofed “ukr.net” address targeting a 
Ukrainian journalist. The email had been sent via 
the SMTP2GO service and the Gophish framework. 
It contained a malicious link that led to a spoofed 
login page designed to steal credentials. 
We also identified a high-profile Belarussian 
blogger and activist targeted by UNC1151 credential 
harvesting operations.The targeting of German individuals has been 
reported in the German media, including articles in 
Der Spiegel14 and Tagesschau.15 We believe that this 
reporting is referring to credential theft activities 
conducted by UNC1151. We have not seen follow-on 
operations using any potentially stolen credentials.  UNC1151 has also 
distributed malware via spear phishing. The malware 
used has all been unique to this group. The malware is 
delivered using straightforward phishing operations, 
likely for espionage. The phishing emails from these 
operations most often have generic themes lacking 
connections to contemporary events or disinformation, 
though in some cases, lures have been related to 
inflammatory current events. For example, actors 
in one operation used a lure related to COVID-19 
misinformation in Ukraine to deliver HALFSHELL 
malware. Other campaigns using malware relied on less 
inflammatory lures such as bank safety notifications.  Multiple artifacts, emails and documents in our UNC1151 
data indicate the group conducts at least some 
components of Ghostwriter activity. For example:UNC1151 has sent multiple emails that support or 
reference Ghostwriter operations. These emails do 
not contain malware or attempt to steal credentials, 
but instead distribute operational narratives. In one 
operation, UNC1151 sent emails in April 2020 with links 
to a fabricated article posted on a compromised Polish 
military website (See Table 2: Polish Soldiers Should 
Rebel Against American “Occupational Forces”) to 
further disseminate that operation’s narrative. On the 
same day, UNC1151 sent additional emails to additional 
entities referencing the Polish government’s poor cyber 
security and susceptibility to disinformation. 
• We discovered two blended Ghostwriter and cyber 
espionage operations against Lithuanian media 
entities in 201817 and 201918 which have been reported 
on by the Lithuanian CERT. We were able to connect 
the infrastructure used in these operations to UNC1151 
credential harvesting operations that were active at 
the time.19The content, narratives and chronology of at least 13 
emails sent to various U.S. and European-based media 
outlets by UNC1151 using the Gophish framework align 
with previously identified Ghostwriter operations. We 
detailed seven of these operations in our public report 
on Ghostwriter released in July 2020. 
• Our UNC1151 data contains a copy of a forged letter 
purportedly sent from NATO Secretary General Jens 
Stoltenberg to Lithuanian Minister of National Defense 
Raimundas Karoblis announcing the withdrawal of NATO 
forces from Lithuania due to COVID-19 concerns, which 
we previously determined was used as part of an April 
2020 Ghostwriter operation. 
• Technical indicators suggest that the email accounts 
of the Polish officials whose social media accounts 
were used in the domestically focused operations 
detailed previously were likely compromised by 
UNC1151 during the same timeframe that their 
compromised social media accounts were used to 
support Ghostwriter activity. Mandiant Threat Intelligence has continuously investigated and reported on the 
ongoing Ghostwriter influence campaign since publicly naming it in July 2020. 
We have since observed a seeming expansion of the narratives, targeting and 
TTPs associated with Ghostwriter activity and developed further intelligence 
that leads us to assess that the cyber espionage group UNC1151 conducts at least 
some components of Ghostwriter activity. We have also identified Ghostwriter 
influence activity extending back years before we formally identified the campaign 
in 2020. However, current intelligence gaps, including gaps pertaining to website 
compromises and the operation of false personas, do not allow us to conclusively 
attribute all aspects of the Ghostwriter campaign to UNC1151 at this time.