IMPORTANT: This Knowledge Base article discusses a specific threat that is being automatically tracked by Trellix Insights technology. The content is intended for use by Trellix Insights users, but is provided for general knowledge to all customers. Contact us for more information about Trellix Insights.Vicious Panda targeted the Mongolian public sector, using RTF attachments disguised as documents sent from the Mongolian Ministry of Foreign Affairs. The threat actor behind the attack used the COVID-19 pandemic as a lure and infected victims with a remote access trojan. This trojan can exfiltrate, create, move, and delete files and folders. The Royal Road RTF Weaponizer tool was used to create the malicious documents. These documents contained embedded objects that exploited the Equation Editor flaws in Microsoft Word. Persistence, defense evasion, and execution were achieved using rundll32.exe, the Windows startup folder, and obfuscation.Minimum set of Manual Rules to improve protection to block this campaign IMPORTANT: Always follow best practices when you enable new rules and signatures. When you implement new rules or signatures, always set them to Report mode first and check the alerts generated. Resolve any issues that arise and then set the rules to Block. This step mitigates against triggering false positives and allows you to refine your configuration. For more information, see KB87843 - List of and best practices for Endpoint Security Dynamic Application Containment rules.Aggressive set of Manual Rules to improve protection to block this campaign IMPORTANT: Always follow best practices when you enable new rules and signatures. When you implement new rules or signatures, always set them to Report mode first and check the alerts generated. Resolve any issues that arise and then set the rules to Block. This step mitigates against triggering false positives and allows you to refine your configuration. For more information, see KB87843 - List of and best practices for Endpoint Security Dynamic Application Containment rules.