In March and April 2018, Volexity identified multiple spear phishing campaigns attributed to Patchwork, an Indian APT group also known as Dropping Elephant. This increase in threat activity was consistent with other observations documented over the lastfew months in blogs by 360 ThreatIntelligence Center analyzing attacks on Chinese organizations and Trend Micro noting targets in South Asia. From the attacks observed by Volexity, whatis most notable is that Patchwork has pivoted its targeting and has launched attacks directly against US-based think tanks. Volexity has also found that, in addition to sending malware lures, the Patchwork threat actors are leveraging unique tracking links in their e-mails for the purpose of identifying which recipients opened their e-mail messages. In three observed spear phishing campaigns, the threat actors leveraged domains and themes mimicking those of well-known think tank organizations in the United States. The group lifted articles and themes from the Council on Foreign Relations (CFR), the Center for Strategic and International Studies (CSIS), and the Mercator Institute for China Studies (MERICS) for use in their spear phishing lures and malicious Rich Text Format(RTF) documents. Strangely, in one case, the threat actors also appear to have used a domain name similar to the Foreign Policy Research Institute (FPRI) in a message purporting to be from CFR. Each of the spear phishing attacks contained links to .doc files, which were really RTF documents that attemptto exploit CVE-2017-8750 (Composite Moniker). The threat actors appear to have leveraged publicly available exploit code that can be found on Github atthe URL: https://github.com/rxwx/CVE-2017-8570. If the exploitis successful, the threat actors will attemptto drop and execute QuasarRAT. Details of the malware and the associated attacks are listed below. Each e-mail was sentfrom the attacker-controlled domain mailcenter.support. This domain was not only used to send the phishing e-mails, but also to track which targets opened the email. Within each of the HTML-formatted messages, an embedded image tag is used to beacon home to the attacker’s domain, containing an unique identifier specific to the recipient. While the use of e-mail recipienttracking, a linked RTF document, and a final payload (QuasarRAT variant) remained the same, certain elements differed across campaigns observed. Details on each of the messages are listed below.Upon opening the above attachments, the recipient will be presented with a documentthat is a direct copy of a blog post or reportreleased by the think tank organization being impersonated. Atfirst glance, everything mightlook legitimate, butin the background the target user has likely just been infected with QuasarRAT. QuasarRAT is a freely available “remote (administration|access) tool” (RAT) written in C# and distributed via Github. This RAT provides a variety of functionality that makes it particularly attractive to an attacker. This includes, butis notlimited to, the following: