FireEye Threat Intelligence assesses with high confidence that APT41 is a Chinese state-sponsored espionage group that is also conducting financially motivated activity for personal gain. APT41 espionage operations against the healthcare, high-tech, and telecommunications sectors include establishing and maintaining strategic access, and through mid-2015, the theft of intellectual property. The group's operations against higher education, travel services, and news/media firms provide some indication that the group also tracks individuals and conducts surveillance. FireEye Threat Intelligence assesses with high confidence that APT41 carries out an array of financially motivated intrusions, particularly against the video game industry, including stealing source code and digital certificates, virtual currency manipulation, and attempting to deploy ransomware. APT41 has executed multiple software supply chain compromises, gaining access to software companies to inject malicious code into legitimate files before distributing updates. FireEye Threat Intelligence assesses with high confidence that APT41 is a prolific cyber threat group that carries out Chinese state-sponsored espionage activity in addition to financially motivated activity potentially outside of state control. Activity traces back to 2012 when individual members of APT41 conducted primarily financially motivated operations focused on the video game industry before expanding into likely statesponsored activity. This is remarkable because explicit financially motivated targeting is unusual among Chinese state-sponsored threat groups, and evidence suggests these two motivations were balanced concurrently from 2014 onward. This contrasts with the state-sponsored goals that likely drive the group's healthcare, high-tech, and politically related targeting.APT41 campaigns include most of the incidents previously attributed in FireEye Threat Intelligence reporting to GREF Team and a number of additional clusters that were previously unnamed.Like other Chinese espionage operators, APT41 targets industries in a manner generally aligned with China's Five-Year economic development plans. However, some campaigns attributed to APT41 indicate that the group is also deployed to gather intelligence ahead of imminent events, such as mergers and acquisitions (M&A) and political events. Directly targeted verticals include:APT41 has targeted organizations in 14 countries (and Hong Kong) over seven years, including: France, India, Italy, Japan, Myanmar, the Netherlands, Singapore, South Korea, South Africa, Switzerland, Thailand, Turkey, the United Kingdom, and the United States (Figure 1). APT41 espionage operations against entities in these countries follow targeting of verticals consistent with Chinese national policy priorities.The duality of APT41's state-sponsored activity and its own cyber crime operations is demonstrated in the group's simultaneous operations. Throughout the group’s observable history, APT41 has consistently run its own financially motivated campaigns concurrently with espionage operations. In contrast, APT41 espionage targeting has changed significantly over time, suggesting shifts in assigned missions or new contracts to complete. A breakdown of industries targeted by APT41 over time can be found in Figure 2.Observed APT41 targeting is consistent with China's national strategies to move production capabilities upmarket into research and development (R&D)-heavy fields. These initiatives were especially highlighted with "Made in China 2025," a plan announced in 2015 that aims to shift China's economy toward higher value products and services, including pharmaceuticals, semiconductors, and other high-tech industries. In addition to specifically targeting industries of strategic value, we suggest that APT41 is also given more tactical assignments, including reconnaissance and identifying dissidents.APT41 frequently leverages timely news stories as the lure content in their spear-phishing emails, although social engineering content does not always correlate with targeted users or organizations.APT41 activity aimed at medical device companies and pharmaceuticals is demonstrative of the group's capacity to collect sensitive and highly valuable intellectual property (IP), although we have not observed evidence of IP theft since late 2015. The healthcare sector was targeted in a manner that is highly specific and most likely indicative of focused taskings from sponsoring organizations with a stake in the healthcare market. Targeted information included pharmaceutical development, clinical trial data, and intelligence regarding a medical subsidiary's parent company. The targeting of these organizations just ahead of the release of products requiring a long R&D cycle can confer a significant market advantage to a competitor. The observed activities are indicative of ongoing efforts to support China's own R&D efforts in support of Made in China 2025. Unlike other observed Chinese espionage operators, APT41 conducts explicit financially motivated activity, which has included the use of tools that are otherwise exclusively used in campaigns supporting state interests. The latenight to early morning activity of APT41's financially motivated operations suggests that the group primarily conducts these activities outside of their normal day jobs. However, the group compiled malware for use in cyber crime activity even during espionage-focused working hours.Operational times at gaming targets are most frequent between 18:00 and 07:00 (UTC +8), providing some indication that the group is moonlighting. Note that this is based on data collected over years and does not represent a daily schedule.The group has also targeted cryptocurrencies, including at least one case in which there was a connection between cryptocurrency and an online video gaming platform.Be sure to win fairness because our special FairChannel guarantees accurate RTP rates. The system is based on a blockchain, which means that the gameplay process is open. The payment of the bonus is automatic. Not dependent on the organizer. In addition to this, we also offer fun generous games with fascinating graphics. It can be run on any device and any browser so that all players can enjoy these experiences. Please refer to the attachment for other details! APT41 continuously returns to targeting the video game sector and seems to have matured its campaigns through lessons learned in operations against the industry. We believe these operations include broadly malicious activity that can enable further operations, such as targeting game source code and compromising digital certificates, while other activities are explicitly financially motivated, such as abusing in-game currency mechanics. APT41 campaigns focused on the video game sector have largely affected studios and distributors in East and Southeast Asia, although global companies based in the United States have also been targeted.The group leverages many TTPs during the targeting of video game-related organizations, which are likewise employed in their espionage operations. APT41 is well-known for leveraging compromised digital certificates from video game studios to sign malware. The group has abused at least 19 different certificates in this way. Additional details on code-signing certificates are provided in the section "Use of Code Signing Certificates."APT41 has blatantly engaged in financially motivated activity targeting the video game industry, including manipulating virtual currencies. These activities demonstrate established connections to underground marketplaces and familiarity with monetization and laundering techniques.ransomware. We suggest that APT41 sought to target in-game currency but found they could not monetize the specific targeted game, so the group resorted to ransomware to attempt to salvage their efforts and profit from the compromise. In multiple instances, APT41 targeted third parties and leveraged this access to target additional victims. APT41's exploitation of third parties varied. In some instances, APT41 moved laterally from one victim environment to another in order to initiate compromise. APT41 has also used credentials compromised in previous operations.Supply chain compromises are most likely an extension of APT41's tactics used in gaining access to gaming development environments and to other gaming organizations via third-party service providers. Public reports of supply chain compromises linked to APT41 date back to at least 2014, and technical evidence associated with these incidents was used to determine a relationship, if any, with APT41. Our assessment in each of these cases is noted in Table 1.Although APT41 supply chain compromises affect very large numbers of victims, the group limits follow-on activity to select victims most likely to reduce detection and ensure any additional malware is delivered only to intended victims. Counterintuitively, supply chain operations add an additional layer of obscurity to the group's operations because it is difficult to pinpoint the desired target set.In December 2014, installers for three online games published by a Southeast Asian video game distributor were injected with the SOGU backdoor. The installer for these popular games was replaced by a malicious file that dropped the SOGU backdoor along with the normal game installer.Despite these compelling overlaps, the actors responsible for this compromise leverage additional unique tools not observed with APT41 or any other Chinese espionage group, suggesting that they are either part of APT41 and maintain their own toolset, or a close affiliate of APT41 that shares both tools and taskings. In March 2017, suspected Chinese espionage operators targeted CCleaner, a utility that assists in the removal of unwanted files from a computer. According to the parent company, Avast, the infected CCleaner was downloaded by 2.27 million customers. While we have identified some overlaps between the CCleaner activity and APT41, we do not have enough information to attribute the CCleaner compromise to APT41 at this time.algorithms (DGA) for C&C, use of dead drop resolvers (DDR), and use of shellcode as primary payloads. However, FireEye malware analysis of the compromised CCleaner samples and associated COLDJAVA samples did not reveal shared code with the POISONPLUG and POISONPLUG.SHADOW malware samples used in similar supply chain incidents by APT41.In July 2017, APT41 injected malicious code into a software update package maintained by Netsarang and signed it with a legitimate Netsarang certificate in an operation referred to as "ShadowPad" by Kaspersky. The software package is reportedly used by hundreds of companies worldwide.In June 2018, a utility used to update ASUS computers was compromised in an operation dubbed "ShadowHammer" by Kaspersky. Open-source reporting indicated that more than 50,000 systems installed the malicious update, yet the malware was only designed to execute and retrieve second-stage malware on a designated list of approximately 600 systems, demonstrating this was a targeted campaign. Public reporting on the incident noted that many of the targeted MAC addresses were associated with wireless adapters from various vendors, partially indicating the operation's targeting strategy.Beginning in July 2018, APT41 appeared to have directly targeted several East and Southeast Asia-based video game developers and distributors to inject legitimate executables with the CRACKSHOT backdoor.Identified overlaps across various incidents attributed to APT41 demonstrate the group's dual nature. Figure 9 and Figure 10 illustrate crossover between espionage and financially motivated activity, as well as technical similarities in tools used across both types of operations.We assess with high confidence that APT41 is attributable to Chinese individuals who are working on behalf of the Chinese state in conducting cyber espionage operations, and that these actors are also running financially motivated campaigns for personal gain. Two identified personas using the monikers "Zhang Xuguang" and "Wolfzhi" linked to APT41's operations have also been identified in Chinese-language forums. Attribution to these individuals is backed by identified persona information, the previous work of these individuals, their apparent expertise in programming skills, and their targeting of Chinese market-specific games. It is uncertain how many other individuals may also be associated with APT41.Zhang Xuguang (张旭光) registered more than a dozen domains masquerading as video games or companies with trusted relationships with video game developers/ distributors. Long-running activity provides a catalog of Zhang's efforts to improve his skills and expertise over time.We assess with moderate confidence that APT41 is constituted of contractors tasked by the Chinese state to conduct espionage operations. Individuals attributed to the group have previously indicated that they could be hired and advertised their skills and services. APT41's use of the same malware in both financial- and espionage-related operations could support their status as contractors; state employees are less likely to use such tools for personal financial gain over multiple years given the potential for greater scrutiny or punishment.APT41 uses many of the same tools and compromised digital certificates that have been leveraged by other Chinese espionage operators. Initial reports about HIGHNOON and its variants (reported publicly as "Winnti") dating back to at least 2013 indicated the tool was exclusive to a single group, contributing to significant conflation across multiple distinct espionage operations.The use of DLL side-loading has been a source of continued confusion when used as an indicator for distinct operations. This technique uses a legitimate and often digitally signed executable to essentially trick a system into launching a malicious DLL because it has been given the same name as a legitimate DLL normally loaded by the executable. The use of a valid and digitally signed A significant number of non-public tools used by APT41 are shared with other distinct Chinese espionage operators. Source code overlaps between observed code families indicate potential access to shared code repositories or common developers between groups. • APT41 has used several malware families that have also been used by other Chinese espionage operators, including variants of HIGHNOON, HOMEUNIX, PHOTO, SOGU, and ZXSHELL, among others. Table 10 illustrates some of overlap between malware families used by APT41 and other APT groups. Note that this is only for illustration purposes and is not indicative of all observed malware families used by these APT groups or all groups that have used those families. executable allows actors to bypass host-based security measures. For this reason, it continues to be popular mechanism used by multiple groups. This also explains why the use of these DLL filenames is not a unique indicator for distinct APT operators. Table 9 contains legitimate executables used by APT41 and selected other Chinese cyber espionage groups for DLL side-loading:APT41 regularly leverages code-signing certificates to sign malware when targeting both gaming and nongaming organizations. Notably, most of the digital certificates being used in this manner are valid unrevoked digital certificates stolen from East Asia-based game development studios. APT41 likely signs their malware to ensure compatibility with the targeted systems and to potentially avoid detection.APT41 is a dual threat demonstrating creativity and aggressiveness in carrying out both espionage campaigns and financially motivated operations. The group's capabilities and targeting have both widened over time, signaling the potential for additional supply chain compromises affecting more victims in additional verticals. APT41's links to both underground marketplaces and state-sponsored activity may indicate the group enjoys protections that enables it to conduct its own for-profit activities, or authorities are willing to overlook them. It is also possible that APT41 has simply evaded scrutiny from Chinese authorities. Regardless, these operations underscore a blurred line between state power and crime that lies at the heart of threat ecosystems and is exemplified by APT41.APT41 uses a variety of malware and tools, both public and unique to the group, to establish a foothold with a victim's environment, including:APT41 escalates its privileges in systems by leveraging custom-made and publicly available tools to gather credentials and dump password hashes. The tools include:APT41 conducts network reconnaissance after using compromised credentials to log on to other systems. The group leverages built-in Windows commands, such as "netstat" and "net share," in addition to the custom and non-public malware families SOGU, HIGHNOON, and WIDETONE.APT41 assesses the network architecture of an organization and identifies pivotal systems for enabling further access. The group has repeatedly identified intermediary systems that provide access to otherwise segmented parts of an organization's network (as outlined in Case Study: Video Game Industry Targeting). Once APT41 has identified intermediary systems, it moves quickly to compromise systems. In one case, hundreds of systems across several geographic regions were compromised in as little as two weeks. APT41 uses multiple methods to perform lateral movement in an environment, including RDP sessions, using stolen credentials, adding accounts to User and Admin groups, and password brute-forcing utilities. The group will also use a compromised account to create scheduled tasks on systems or modify legitimate Windows services to install the HIGHNOON and SOGU backdoors.APT41 frequently uses the publicly available utility WMIEXEC to move laterally across an environment. WMIEXEC is a tool that allows for the execution of WMI commands on remote machines. Examples of commands executed by the utility include：To maintain presence, APT41 relies on backdoors, a Sticky Keys vulnerability, scheduled tasks, bootkits, rootkits, registry modifications, and creating or modifying startup files. APT41 has also been observed modifying firewall rules to enable file and printer sharing to allow for inbound Server Message Block (SMB) traffic.At times APT41 uses legitimate websites, such as GitHub, Pastebin, and Microsoft TechNet, to avoid detection. Interestingly, some of the group's POISONPLUG malware samples leverage the Steam Community website associated with Valve, a video game developer and publisher. This technique of storing encoded or encrypted strings, known as dead drop resolvers (DDR), on legitimate websites that can subvert network defenders as traffic to and from the sites is typically benign. The group has also configured Linux backdoors to run on ports used by legitimate applications within victim environments, enabling malicious traffic to bypass network security measures and hide malicious activity within the organization's regular application traffic.Before attempting to deploy the publicly available Ransomware-as-a-Service (RaaS) Encryptor RaaS through group policy, APT41 blocked victim systems from retrieving anti-virus updates by accessing the DNS management console and implementing a forward lookup on the domain used for anti-virus updates to the park IP address "1.1.1.1."APT41 has been observed creating a RAR archive of targeted files for exfiltration. The group has also manipulated in-game currencies using the targets' databases after compromising production environments. During multiple engagements, APT41 attempted to remove evidence of some of its activity by deleting Bash histories, clearing Windows security and system events, and modifying DNS management to avoid anti-virus detections. In at least one instance, the group attempted to deploy Encryptor RaaS. However, an operator's typo prevented the ransomware from executing in the victim's environment. In another instance, APT41 deployed XMRig, a Monero cryptocurrency mining tool in a victim's environment.