Adversary engagement opportunities are driven by adversary behavior. As adversaries interact with an environment, they unintentionally reveal their own behavioral weaknesses. These weaknesses can be exploited by the defender using adversary engagement measures to distract, disrupt, or deny the adversary. In our previous blog post we examined the history and TTPs associated with Russia’s disruption of critical infrastructure. In this blog post will take a deeper dive into the particulars of the three most prominent Russian critical infrastructure threat actors: Sandworm, Dragonfly and XENOTIME. We will then examine how each group’s historic TTPs offer opportunities for engagement. As the Russian cyber threat escalates, we hope defenders can use these insights to start exploring the art of possibly when it comes to using denial, deception, and adversary engagement in their own organization. As always, if you are interested in getting started in adversary engagement, reach out to us at engage@mitre.org. Each of these three APTs seem to fill a different role within Russia’s infrastructure hacking: Sandworm is one of Russia’s most destructive hacking teams, responsible for attacks which shut off Ukrainian power grids in 2015 and 2016; Dragonfly appears to primarily be an intelligence gathering threat actor observed in a large number of Industrial Control System (ICS) networks but never reported escalating to disruptive or destructive attacks; and finally, XENOTIME, the most elusive of the three, exhibits targeting behavior characterized by an ability to tailor malware to specific industrial control systems, as evidenced by their Trisis/Triton malware that affected Saudi pipeline safety systems. A full mapping of the TTPs employed by these adversaries to deception activities is available using the Group filter of the Engage Matrix Explorer. We will now use previously analyzed incidents to identify the places where Sandworm, Dragonfly, and XENOTIME may be susceptible to adversary engagement activities. Sandworm, also known as Electrum, Iron Viking, or Voodoo Bear, is associated with the GRU and is perhaps Russia’s most infamous hacking team. They possess a well-earned reputation as one of the most disruptive threat actors and are responsible for attacks such as NotPetya, Olympic Destroyer, and Crash Override. Sandworm has been observed using phishing and exploitation of external remote services to gain initial access to victims. These techniques make them vulnerable to engagement activities that direct them to a separate deception network. For example, defenders can forward phishing emails to a decoy persona’s mailbox for engagement in an isolated environment, or intentionally leave a device in that environment vulnerable to remote exploitation. By denying adversaries access to their standard capabilities, defenders can force adversaries to expend additional time and energy without accomplishing their primary objectives. This may also force them to demonstrate new or previously unobserved capabilities, which can help inform and improve traditional network defense strategies. Additionally, defenders can observe adversary behavior in the isolated environment to collect new Indicators of Compromise (IoC) or to generate new Cyber Threat Intelligence (CTI). Such data can be used to inform and drive defenses elsewhere in the network. Once in the network, Sandworm uses local software and other resources to accomplish their goals. By using software manipulations the defender can drive up uncertainty, increase the adversary’s cost to operate, lure the adversary towards tripwires, or drive the adversary away from critical resources. Examples of such manipulation include: Modifying common discovery commands to hide legitimate files and show files that don’t exist. Changing common data deletion functions to only hide the data, rather than outright removing it. Altering account management commands to show access to fake devices or by not allowing changes to permissions to persist. Subtly degrading the effectiveness of encryption functions. Additionally, Sandworm often uses stolen credentials to establish persistence. This provides an opportunity for defenders to realistically litter an environment with decoy credentials. By monitoring for the use of these credentials the defender can: Receive high fidelity alerts to malicious activity. Gain insights into the extent of a compromise by analyzing the location credentials were stolen from. Frustrate the adversary’s attempts at establishing persistence. Dragonfly, also known as Dymalloy, Iron Liberty, or Berserk Bear, is likely associated with the Federal Security Service (FSB) and has historically focused on gathering intelligence on ICS security. Even though they have not conducted destructive operations, they remain a threat as they have demonstrated a substantial ability to penetrate critical infrastructure systems in several countries. Dragonfly uses many of the same initial access vectors as Sandworm and can be stymied in many of the same ways. Where the two actors diverge is in their long-term goals in the system. Unlike Sandworm, Dragonfly seems to establish persistence with the goal of sitting on the network and gathering intelligence about the underlying operational technology (OT). This objective makes them particularly susceptible to deception, not only to elicit previously unobserved capabilities, but also to raise the cost of subsequent attacks and to impair future capability development: such as by feeding them false or misleading information. The lack of homogeneity in ICS networks means that realistic, but fake, documentation and data can appear convincing to an adversary. When combined with the much lower proportion of pocket litter in an ICS environment, feeding Dragonfly expensive to extract, but ultimately false, information can sabotage their operations. Additionally, steps can be taken to degrade Dragonfly’s ability to efficiently exfiltrate the decoy data. Such steps can include manipulating the network, encrypting the bogus files to feign importance and consume resources to decrypt, or enabling additional security controls to make moving, copying, or accessing the files more difficult. All of these activities may compel Dragonfly to demonstrate new capabilities or assist defenders with attribution. XENOTIME, also known as TEMP.Veles, is a Russian hacking group with a targeted interest in oil and gas industrial control systems. The group has been linked by Mandiant to the Central Scientific Research Institute of Chemistry and Mechanics in Moscow, a Russian government-owned technical research institution. XENOTIME garnered international attention in 2017 after it’s Triton/Trisis malware was found to have intentionally targeted Saudi Arabian petrochemical plants. The attack attempted to cause physical damage to one plant by overriding the facility’s safety controllers and risked a significant loss of human life had the disruption been carried out. A technical analysis of Trisis showed that despite the malware’s singular purpose, its creator, XENOTIME, shares many of its TTPs with Sandworm and Dragonfly. Therefore, XENOTIME can be countered using many of the same deception activities that would prove effective against other Russian state-sponsored threat actors. Sandworm, Dragonfly, and XENOTIME all exhibit ICS behaviors vulnerable to deception. Interestingly, while they exhibit differing TTPs with differing goals, they are often vulnerable to the same deception activities. This is good news for the defender. A deception intended for one actor may be applicable to several. Considering such reusability is important to lower the defender’s costs to deploy deception technologies. By understanding the profile of the Russian threat actors described above, organizations can tailor their deceptive practices to take advantage of the adversary’s exposed weaknesses. Sharing this intelligence with other defenders plays an important role in the united front against Russia’s cyberspace sabotage and espionage operations.