Iranian Backed APT Group APT39: Chafer Especially those who are after sensitive personal data of anti-Iranian institution employees APT39; chafer, REMIX KITTEN And COBALT HICKMAN It is known by names such as. The APT group, which carries out cyber espionage activities for the interests of Iran, has also targeted Turkey before. It is considered that APT39 used the Python payload called MechaFlounder in its attack against Turkey.APT39 differs from other threat groups in that it is an APT group that focuses on capturing personal information of corporate personnel. Cobalt Hickman (APT39), a highly sophisticated threat actor, focuses more on data collection, acting in Iranian interests. It collects data on companies in its target sectors, especially with a pro-Iran attitude. It uses the personal data it collects as additional access vectors in its current operation or as a potential tool in a future attack.Chafer, as its nickname suggests, is an Iranian-backed APT group. It has been actively carrying out operations since 2014, displaying a pro-Iran stance. The most striking and distinctive feature of the group is that it focuses on personal information, as mentioned in the "who is" section.In particular, individuals and institutions that pose a danger to Iran or have any personal information that could be valuable if captured are targeted by the group.Although APT39 has global targets, it is particularly focused on the Middle East. The group, which attacks Iran's interests in the Middle East, particularly targets the following sectors: Travel industry and IT companies serving this industry. Telecommunications companies. Advanced technology industry. APT39 uses various backdoor software as well as tools and software developed for different purposes and used by security experts. Malware with different features is used by the group to ensure persistence in the target system or to jump from one system to another. Specifically, malware whose name is mentioned together with APT39 isPOWBATVarious variants of the back door,SEAWEEDAndCACHEMONEYThey are backdoor software called. ASPXSpy:It is used to ensure persistence on the infiltrated server. Cadelspy:It is mostly used in the information gathering stage after infiltrating the target system. It has features such as keylogging, microphone listening, capturing copied clipboard data, and learning the devices and components connected to the infiltrated system. CrackMapExec:It was used to detect existing domain users on the local network and to perform brute force attacks. It has features such as capturing user information (via SAM), listing the network configuration and other systems on the network. MechaFlounder:It is used to run commands on the infiltrated system and transmit the captured data to the command and control (C2 - Command and Control) server. Mimikatz:It has been used to extract user account information from memory, to obtain unauthorized access by manipulating this information, and to obtain previously used usernames and passwords from the cache of web browsers. PsExec:It was preferred to run commands in the infiltrated system, access SMB shares, and move the tools used or planned to be used during the attack while moving horizontally. pwdump:Again, like CrackMapExec, it was used to hijack user accounts from the SAM file. Remexi:It has been used for purposes such as accessing network traffic, detecting applications running on the system, and running Windows commands. However, Remexi is also used for keylogging, instant screenshots and file and directory discovery.