OceanLotus (also known as apt-tocs, APT32) is considered to be an APT group from a country on IndoChina Peninsula. Since it was active in 2012, it has been carrying out attacks against sensitive targets in China and is one of the most active APT attack organizations targeting mainland China in recent years. Previously, Antiy and other security vendors have published a number of analysis reports on OceanLotus, focusing mainly on the PC side. The attack methods are mainly based on spear and phishing attacks, and mobile attacks are rare. However, with the development of the mobile Internet, on the one hand, people’s mobile phones gradually become dual-use. In addition to the personal privacy of users, they often have their social attributes. On the other hand, wireless communication of smartphones can bypass the internal safety regulation devices, so the attack on the mobile side has become an important part of the entire attack chain. Below, Antiy Mobile Security use the mobile-side attack incidents that occurred in China as a blueprint for specific analysis and explanation. These applications disguise as a normal application, and their icons will hide automatically after they are running. They will release malicious sub-packages in the background, receive the remote control command, steal the privacy information of users such as SMS messages, contacts, call records, geographic locations, and browser records. They also download apks secretly and record audios and videos, then upload users’ privacy information to server, causing users’ privacy leakage.The main package reflects the Execute method of the com.android.preferences.AndroidR class: Set up communication with mobile phone, send control instructions and upload some private information such as SMS, contact, call record, geographical location and browser record. In addition, the spy sub-package also established https communication for uploading large files such as recordings, screenshots, documents, photos, videos.https://jang.goongnam.com/resource/request.php, it has been inactivated at present, and the C2 belongs to the assets of the OceanLotus organization. As shown in the following figure: First, the signature Subject contains the words HackingTeam and Christian Pozz (the name of an administrator in the Hacking Team); secondly, the registration function in the code can be considered as commercial spyware for sale; finally, according to the late Hacking According to Team’s leaked information, the country OceanLotus affiliated with is also on the list of its customers. Different from the samples we analyzed before, the above samples have obvious functional improvements, and the privilege escalation has been added. Taking 45AE1CB1596E538220CA99B29816304F as an example, the file named dataOff.db in the assets directory is decrypted, and the file after decryption has the privilege escalation. The configuration file looks like this: It can be seen that after the code leakage, the CEO of the HackingTeam organization said that "the leaked code is only a small part" is based on the facts, which also reflects that the network arms merchants have lowered the threshold of APT attacks to a certain extent, making more uncertainties of cyber attacks. At the same time, we also noticed that the series of malicious code has been delivered through the domestic third-party application market and file sharing website. The OceanLotus is always evolving and constantly updating its attack techniques and arsenal to achieve the goal of bypassing security software. In addition to the constant updating of the arsenal, the organization is quite knowledgeable about China, including the policies and usage habits. This not only confuses the relevant personnel, increases the success rate of their attacks, but also brings immeasurable losses to the target victim groups. Therefore, for individuals, it is necessary to effectively raise the awareness of network security and not be blinded by phishing information. For security vendors, it is more necessary to deepen their understanding and continue to conduct targeted confrontation and improve security protection capabilities, truly escort for mobile security of the user side.