During National Cyber Security Awareness month, we here at Inspired eLeraning want to make you aware of some of the most current threats in the threat landscape. One of these threats are advanced persistent threats (APTs) now attacking in force mobile devices. According to the Verizon 2018 Data Breach Report the most used attacks on mobile devices are phishing and vishing. NSO Group and Dark Caracal are the two most encountered groups using these types of attacks. The threats from both of these attackers show that mobile APT is evolving very differently than APT on PCs but are using some of the tried and true techniques like phishing. For the past six years, NSO Group have been nothing less than extraordinary in creating the world’s most invasive mobile spy kit without ever exposing their work. Recently, however, they’ve been busted exploiting iPhones in some of the most astonishing attacks in the world of private espionage. The company, according to analyses from Citizen Lab and Lookout Mobile Security, discovered three previously unknown and unpatched iOS vulnerabilities (known as zero-days) that have been exploited by the firm. Just one click of a malicious link in a text allows NSO to jailbreak the phone undetected. The attack allowed NSO-created malware, codenamed Pegasus, to install on the phone and collect all communications and locations of the targeted iPhones. That includes iMessage, Gmail, Viber, Facebook, WhatsApp, Telegram and Skype communications, amongst other data. It can collect Wi-Fi passwords too. The advanced persistent threat (APT) group known as Dark Caracal is known to be operating out of a building belonging to a Lebanese intelligence agency in Beirut. To date, they have stolen hundreds of gigabytes of data from Android devices and desktop systems belonging to thousands of victims in more than 20 countries, including the U.S. Targets of the global cyber-espionage campaign by the so-called Dark Caracal group have included government and military personnel, defense contractors, activists, and journalists in North America, Europe, and Asia. Dark Caracal’s activities primarily target multiple platforms globally, but especially noteworthy is its unprecedented focus on mobile devices. While this APT has attacked multiple platforms such as Windows, Mac, and Linux desktops, the campaigns were primarily aimed at infecting Android devices through fake secure messaging apps such as Signal and WhatsApp. The malware used by Dark Caracal is also being used by other APT groups, which suggests that Dark Caracal is more of an APT-for-hire than a hacking group tied to a single nation state. The rise of APTs attacking our mobile devices is here to stay. We find ourselves working with and from our mobile devices, and at times taking their security for granted. That time has come and gone, and we must now take the security of our mobile devices seriously. Below are some helpful strategies to help you protect your mobile devices and the data they contain. Install software updates as soon as they become available. Be careful of what you install. When you install an app, you may be asked to grant it various permissions, including the ability to read your files, access your camera, or listen in to your microphone. Only allow permissions necessary to use the app. Review what’s already on your phone and remove apps you don’t use. Make sure your phone is locked when not in use: both Android and iOS can be set to require a six-digit passcode. Consider using fingerprints or facial recognition if your device supports them. Be prepared to track and lock your phone, so even if your phone is stolen, you know your data is safe. You might also consider setting your phone to automatically erase itself after a certain number of incorrect password attempts. Beware of open Wi-Fi.: anyone in the vicinity can snoop on what you’re doing online.