The various threat intelligence stories in this iteration of the Anomali Cyber Watch discuss the following topics: APT, DDoS, Polyglot, RATs, Russia, Skimmers, Trojanized apps, and Ukraine. The IOCs related to these stories are attached to Anomali Cyber Watch and can be used to check your logs for potential malicious activity.On January 10, 2023, Fortinet researchers detected actor Lolip0p offering malicious packages on the Python Package Index (PyPI) repository. The packages came with detailed, convincing descriptions pretending to be legitimate HTTP clients or, in one case, a legitimate improvement for a terminal user interface. Installation of the libraries led to infostealing malware targeting browser data and authentication (Discord) tokens. In December 2022, the Fortinet network security company fixed a critical, heap-based buffer overflow vulnerability (FG-IR-22-398, CVE-2022-42475) in FortiOS SSL-VPN. The vulnerability was exploited as a zero-day by an advanced persistent threat (APT) actor who was customizing a Linux implant specifically for FortiOS of relevant FortiGate hardware versions. The targeting was likely aimed at governmental or government-related targets. The attribution is not clear, but the compilation timezone UTC+8 may point to China, Russia, and some other countries.Deep Instinct researchers have detected a number of malicious JAR files appended in the beginning to masquerade as being of a different file type. Some files were functional polyglot files: MSI+JAR and CAB+JAR polyglots. Other files had non-functioning PE or binary junk beginning. Two types of payloads were remote access trojans (RATs): StrRAT and Ratty. It is possible that all studied samples were created by the same actor, as some shared C2, and many shared the same BelCloud LTD hosting. A pro-Russian DDoS group called NoName057(16) has been targeting Poland, Latvia, Lithuania, and Ukraine (in the order of intensity). In September 2022, the group relied on a botnet of infected machines. After it was taken down, NoName057(16) started building a volunteer hacktivist DDoS collective. Their Python-based DDoS tool named DDosia has Linux/macOS and Windows versions. Avast researchers detected 2,200 DDoS targets and estimated the overall success rate at 13% and increasing. To incentivise its followers, the group regularly announces cryptocurrency payments to its top performers in the amount of several hundred US dollars.ESET researchers identified a new campaign attributed to the Turkey-sponsored Promethium (StrongPity) APT. The attackers copied a video-chat service website and offered to download an Android app that actually is a trojanized version of the Telegram messenger. An installation leads to modular, fully-functional spyware, similar to the Android spyware used by Promethium in a previous campaign targeting Syria. If a targeted user gives the trojanized app accessibility services permission, it can expand its information-gathering to exfiltrate communication from 17 apps such as Gmail, Messenger, Skype, Tinder, and Viber.The LastPass password manager uses Password-based Key Derivation Function 2 (PBKDF2) to store user passwords. In January 2023, Security Now research community revealed that some user vaults in LastPass had PBKDF2 iteration count set to 5000, 500, or just 1. It makes brute-force attacks on the hashed memorized secrets practical, and these numbers are significantly lower than recommendations from OWASP (310,000 iterations for PBKDF2-HMAC-SHA256) and NIST (as large as verification server performance will allow, typically at least 10,000 iterations). Another concern around the previously-disclosed LastPass breach is unencrypted “LastTouch” field containing a time code that shows when the last logon at each stored domain occurred.A new skimming campaign using the Mr.SNIFFA framework was detected by Malwarebytes researchers. For its domains, the campaign utilizes the theme of cryptocurrency and public figures known in the cryptocurrency industry. Judging from the domain naming and hosting information, the same actor may be involved in crypto giveaway scams. Russian-based hosting provider DDoS-Guard hosts these domains together with other threats including Bitcoin mixers, carding and crimeware sites, fake e-commerce shops, and malware distribution sites.