In 2022, Check Point Research (CPR) noticed a new wave of a long-running campaign targeting the Uyghur community. This malicious activity, which Check Point attributes to the Scarlet Mimic threat agent, first became known in 2016. CPR has since noted that the group is using more than 20 different variations of its Android malware. The malware is relatively simple from a technical point of view. However, its capabilities allow attackers to easily steal confidential data from an infected device, as well as make calls or send SMS on behalf of the victim and track his location in real time. In addition, it allows audio recording of incoming and outgoing calls, as well as volumetric recording. All this makes it a powerful and dangerous surveillance tool. CPR has identified more than 20 samples of Android spyware called MobileOrder, with the latest variant dating back to mid-August 2022. There is no indication that any of them were distributed from the Google Store; most likely, in most cases, malicious applications are disguised as PDF documents, photos or audio distributed through phishing or other social engineering campaigns.In 2022, Check Point Research (CPR) noticed a new wave of a long-running campaign targeting the Uyghur community. This malicious activity, which Check Point attributes to the Scarlet Mimic threat agent, first became known in 2016.CPR has since noted that the group is using more than 20 different variations of its Android malware. The malware is relatively simple from a technical point of view. However, its capabilities allow attackers to easily steal confidential data from an infected device, as well as make calls or send SMS on behalf of the victim and track his location in real time. In addition, it allows audio recording of incoming and outgoing calls, as well as volumetric recording. All this makes it a powerful and dangerous surveillance tool.CPR has identified more than 20 samples of Android spyware called MobileOrder, with the latest variant dating back to mid-August 2022. There is no indication that any of them were distributed from the Google Store; most likely, in most cases, malicious applications are disguised as PDF documents, photos or audio distributed through phishing or other social engineering campaigns.