During 2017-2019, Clearsky had published several reports about the Iranian APT group “Charming Kitten”. One of the group’s most common attack vectors is impersonating journalists, particularly those from the German “Deutsche Welle” broadcasting company and the “Jewish Journal” magazine1 . Starting July 2020,we have identified a new TTP of the group, impersonating “Deutsche Welle” and the “Jewish Journal" using emails alongside WhatsApp messages as their main platform to approach the target and convince them to open a malicious link. To gain the victim's trust and ensure the opening of the link, the attackers use fake LinkedIn profiles as well. This is the first time we identified an attack by Charming Kitten conducted through WhatsApp and LinkedIn, including attempts to conduct phone calls between the victim and the Iranian hackers. Charming Kitten chooses to impersonate Persian speaking journalists, to neutralize detection through accent while having the phone call. In this report, we expose for the first time the full conversation between Charming Kitten to a victim, conducted on WhatsApp. The malicious link is embedded in a legitimate, compromised "Deutsche Welle” domain. Each victim receives a personalized link, tailored to their specific email account. We identified an attempt to send a malicious ZIP file to the victim as well, additional to a message that was sent to the victim via a fake LinkedIn profile. We assess that in some cases, Charming Kitten would try to infect the victim with malware instead of stealing its credentials. “Charming Kitten”, also known as APT35 or “Ajax”, is an Iranian cyberespionage group active since 2014. Their primary targets are Iranian academia experts, human rights' activists, and journalists. In the past few months, it seems that Charming Kitten has expanded their target’s list, adding the Baha’i community2 , high-ranking American civil servants and officials (including ambassadors and former employees of the US State Department), and COVID-19 related organizations (such as Gilead3 and WHO4 ). In the current campaign, we identified attempts to attack Israeli scholars (targeting their institutional email account), and US government employees. Here is a timeline of their operations involving “Deutsche Welle” and “Jewish Journal” in the past 3 years. Clearsky alerted “Deutsche Welle” about the impersonation and the watering hole in their website. A “Deutsche Welle” representative confirmed that the reporter which Charming Kitten impersonated, did not send any emails to the victim nor any other academic researcher in Israel in the past few weeks. Note that part of "Deutsche Welle"reporters are originally from Iran – a fact that helps Charming Kitten to hide the accent of their operators during a phone call. It should be noted that this attack vector is unique to Charming Kitten, but it has not the only attack vector that has been used in recent months by this threat actor. More information about recent campaigns by the group can be found in our raw threat intelligence5 or on our blog6 .In recent months, we identify an increase in the use of WhatsApp and LinkedIn as platforms of communication between threat actors and victims. In the last three years, Charming Kitten has been operating their campaigns mainly by emails and SMS. These two platforms enable the attacker to reach the victim easily, spending minimum time in creating the fictitious social media profile. However, in this campaign Charming Kitten has used a reliable, well-developed LinkedIn account to support their email spear-phishing attacks. In this campaign, we observed a willingness of the attackers to speak on the phone directly with the victim, using WhatsApp calls, and a legitimate German phone number. This TTP is uncommon and jeopardizes the fake identity of the attackers (unlike emails for example). However, if the attackers have successfully passed the phone call obstacle, they can gain more trust from the victim, compared to an email message. Charming Kitten is not the first threat actor who uses WhatsApp phone call in recent months. In Operation ‘Dream Job’, which we exposed in August 20207 , the Lazarus group (North Korea) used the same method to gain the victim's trust.This latest campaign of Charming Kitten uses enhanced social engineering techniques already discovered in our report “The Kittens Are Back in Town” in 20198 . In the 2019 scenario, the attackers had impersonated a known journalist, almost always from “Deutsche Welle”. In 2020 Charming Kitten offers the victim to participate in an online webinar/meeting about Iran and other subjects of interest for the target (e.g. recent discourse between Iran and the US). The Charming Kitten operators introduce themselves as journalists and ask the victim whetherthey are interested in participating in the webinar. If so, they are requested to reply in order to receive the following details:In most of the cases that we handled in the past several months, the targeted academia researchers had high awareness and suspected that they are probably under an Iranian attack. Their suspicion led them to contact us and further contact with Charming Kitten under our guidance (i.e. not opening the emails sent to them). Over the course of the past severalweeks, one of the targets was lured to respond to the attackers. The subject of impersonation was an Iranian journalist that speaks fluent Farsi with a local accent. The correspondence begun with an email sent to the target, initiating a conversation. Unlike previous attacks, the attackers did not display details regarding the allegedwebinar; instead, they asked to start a conversation. Several attempts were made to contact Israeli researchers from Haifa and Tel Aviv Universities' email addresses, hosted on a Microsoft email server (Outlook).In another case, the attacker impersonated an Israeli scholar from Tel Aviv University and invited them to an alleged "Zoom" meeting in Hebrew.phishing using SMS), but the first case where we have seen the use of WhatsApp. If the target refuses to move to WhatsApp, the attacker will send a message via a fake LinkedIn profile. Here’s an example of “Marcy Oster” – a fake profile used by the Iranians in their attack. To convince the victim to join the alleged webinar, the attackers tried to entice the victim with nominating them as its main speaker, chosen from more than a hundred participants. They claimed that further information about the alleged webinar will be shared after approving the invitation. The subject of the webinar is changed by Charming Kitten from one victim to another, based on their expertise.Second Stage – WhatsApp and LinkedIn After this conversation with the target, the attacker requests that they switch to WhatsApp for further conversation. Charming Kitten sent multiple and repeating messages, sometimes in very short time, until the target responded. The messages were sent from a German number (prefix +49) to create a sense of credibility, and the WhatsApp account bears the image of the journalist being impersonated. Unlike other groups, Charming Kitten chooses to impersonate Persian speaking journalists, to neutralize detection through the accent.The Charming Kitten attackers implore the victim to respond repeatedly for ten days, and they are prepared to engage in a direct phone call with them to cajole the victim into “activating their account” with the site "Akademie DW"(used as their phishing page). During our investigation, we addressed DW, which confirmed that the reporter never contacted the victim and that the alleged webinar is fake. The webinar’s subjects were previously used by the group as lures. In May 2020, for example, the group impersonated the INSS and lured victims to a webinar regarding China-related research. If the victim is not willing to share their personal phone number, the attacker will send him a message from the fake LinkedIn account. This message will contain a promise that the webinar is secured by Google, as they sent to the victim on the tenth day: Third Stage – Approving attending in the webinar The malicious link was on the Deutsche Welle legitimate domain (dw[.]de). As previously reported in “The Kittens are Back in Town”. Each victim receives a personalized link for their own email address – the word “?id=”, following by the word SSH and 3 sets of 5 letters and numbers. Here’s an example for the format:Attempting to access any service other than Outlook leads to a legitimate log-in page. Accessing the Outlook page displays a fictitious log-in field including a victim-specific URI:The Clearsky impersonation from 2018 presented the same phishing page (we identify in the fake website a page impersonated Jewish Journal as well). Both cases included a file named lgntopl.gif on the domain, characterizing Outlook phishing pages. If the victim enters their correct password, they are sent to a 2FA page (as previously seen with direct interactions by the group11). A wrong password produces an error message. The attackers will then pressure the victim to try again using their university email. This propagation vector is unique compared to other, common vectors by the group (such as ".site" TLD phishing websites), and the WhatsApp correspondence has not been exposed until this case.Another example of a fake LinkedIn account is “Helen Cooper”, a senior researcher at Hudson Institute (a think tank and research center dedicated to the analysis of US and international economic, security, and political issues). Charming Kitten created a fake profile for the attack and deleted the account later.After the initial message via the fake LinkedIn profile, Charming Kitten sent the victim two different types of compromise attempts from this account: Unlike the common TTPs of this threat actor, sending an attached malware is unique and was not seen in recent attacks by them. The victim deleted the file before we were able to analyze it. The following screenshot shows the correspondence between the attacker and the victim.