The Anomali Threat Research Team has identified an ongoing campaign which it believes is being conducted by the China-based threat group, Mustang Panda. The team first revealed these findings on Wednesday, October 2, during Anomali Detect 19, the company’s annual user conference, in a session titled: “Mustang Panda Riding Across Country Lines.” CrowdStrike researchers first published information on Mustang Panda in June 2018, after approximately one year of observing malicious activities that shared unique Tactics, Techniques, and Procedures (TTPs). This campaign dates back to at least November 2018. The research does not indicate with absolute certainty which entities are being targeted or the impact the campaign has had. Based on the lure documents observed by Anomali, we believe that the following may be targeted:The malicious activity found by Anomali aligns with TTPs, specifically two through six, first identified by CrowdStrike. The observed TTPs consist of the following:We also found similarities in targeting in Mongolia and an NGO. The use of United Nations’ documents regarding activities in the Middle East may also be indicative of think-tank targeting. Furthermore, the use of PlugX malware also aligns with CrowdStrike’s previous findings of activity attributed to Mustang Panda. Analysts’ note: The language capabilities to read some of the lure documents is not available within Anomali at this time. We would encourage those with the language skills necessary to analyze the documents further.In mid-August 2019, the Anomali Threat Research Team discovered suspicious “.lnk” files during routine intelligence collection. While the distribution method of these documents cannot be confirmed at this time, it is likely that spearphishing is being utilized because it aligns with Mustang Panda’s TTPs, and it is a common tactic used amongst APT actors. The lure documents are also too specific in their targeting, and the targeted entities and individuals would be of interest to a China-sponsored threat group.Further analysis of the files led to the identification of other “.lnk” files that were attempting to infect individuals with a Cobalt Strike Beacon (penetration-testing tool) or PlugX (Remote Access Tool (RAT); other payloads were unable to be identified as of this writing. Anomali researchers identified 15 malicious documents that we believe were utilized by Mustang Panda in an ongoing campaign. The documents reveal malicious activity dating from at least November 2018 up to August 29, 2019. The date of this activity is confirmed by the VirusTotal (VT) submission dates, which will be analyzed further in the following sections. In addition, the dates within the documents go back as far as October 8, 2017, therefore, it is possible this activity goes back to 2017 if the group was using current content in their lures. The primary target of this campaign were found to be the ruling political party of Vietnam, The Communist Party of Vietnam (CPV); other targets observed in the malicious documents include the following:The lure documents are themed to be relevant to their targets, and in some cases are copies of legitimate documents that are publicly available. The “.lnk” files being utilized by Mustang Panda typically contain an embedded HTA script that, once executed, will drop and open the decoy document while the malicious activity of the payload runs in the background. Other lure documents are themed to be relevant to their targets, and in some cases are legitimate documents that are publicly available. The final type of malicious document we observed were empty, and only contain an image, such as requesting for macros to be enabled, used to distract someone while malicious activity takes place in the background.The 15 documents will be discussed below from the most recent VT submission to the earliest. The identified samples follow the same infection chain, and the technical analysis will be discussed in a later section.As seen above, this document is addressed to the Embassy of Vietnam in China. The document appears to discuss a warning issued to the Vietnam government related to a military exercise on a set of coordinates. Specifically, the document informs that no civilian ships are allowed on said coordinates. The document continues and mentions a new ice-breaking ship called “Snow Dragon 2” and mentions August 15, 2019, as the beginning of a 35-day trial run. This document indicates a regional interest with specificity.Mustang Panda is using this decoy document, dated August 15, 2019, to target the People’s Committee Lang Son Province. The Peoples’ Committee is the executive branch of a Vietnamese province. The Lang Son province shares a border with China’s Guangxi Province. The area has historically served as an important location for trade, and therefore control over the location has long been disputed and fought over. The border shared between China and Vietnam measures 1,281 km in length and multiple wars and numerous lives have been lost in conflicts fought, the complexities and intricacies of which will not be further discussed. This document appears to be targeting the Shan Tai people by using a document referencing the Restoration Council of Shan State (RCSS). The Shan Tai people make up the largest minority group in Myanmar (Burma) and are located in Northwestern and Eastern Myanmar (Burma) and the Yunnan province in China. The RCSS, also referred to as Shan State Army (SSA), is a government/political organization that is headquartered in Loi Tai Leng, Southern Shan state, in present-day Myanmar (Burma), bordering Thailand. The targeting of minority groups is a known tactic used by the government of the People’s Republic of China.