In the video, Ukrainian soldiers are seen coming out of the woods, white flag in hand, ready to surrender. The footage, which hackers attempted to post on the Facebook accounts of Ukrainian officials in the early days of the Russian invasion, is fake. According to Facebook, which spotted the disinformation operation, the hackers are part of Ghostwriter, a group well known to digital investigators.You can share an article by clicking on the share icons at the top right of it. The total or partial reproduction of an article, without the prior written authorization of Le Monde, is strictly forbidden. For more information, see our Terms and Conditions. For all authorization requests, contact syndication@lemonde.fr. https://www.lemonde.fr/en/pixels/article/2022/05/01/ghostwriter-the-pro-russian-hackers-crashing-the-war-in-ukraine_5982121_13.html The shadow of this group has hung over the Ukrainian conflict for months and the Russian invasion has allowed it to deploy its full arsenal, which involves mixing traditional hacking with information manipulation operations. It is now one of the most aggressive online groups, said Ukrainian authorities on April 22. Starting in early 2021, the group began launching phishing campaigns designed to harvest information from Ukrainian email addresses and military accounts across networks, according to Microsoft. In mid-January 2022, with tensions between Russia and Ukraine at an all-time high, Kyiv accused Ghostwriter of hacking several government sites: Their content was replaced with a propaganda message meant to exacerbate tensions between Poland and Ukraine. In February, those same Ukrainian authorities – as well as Google – accused the group of a wave of malicious emails that intended to retrieve various logins and passwords from Ukrainian military personnel. At the same time, Facebook's parent company Meta asserted that it had seen an increase in the group's activity targeting Ukrainian military and public figures. In March, authorities in Kyiv twice blamed the group for spreading a computer virus. In April, Facebook noted a new offensive against the Ukrainian military, again with a mixed purpose: hacking into emails to gain access to social media accounts and posting messages designed to discredit the military.Ukraine is not the first country to be targeted by Ghostwriter. The group's first military feats date back to 2016, well before the start of the Russian invasion. The first disinformation operations mainly targeted Lithuania and, to a lesser extent, Latvia.