This article exposes the malicious activities of Group 123 during 2017. We assess with high confidence that Group 123 was responsible for the following six campaigns: "Golden Time" campaign. "Evil New Year" campaign. "Are you Happy?" campaign. "FreeMilk" campaign. "North Korean Human Rights" campaign. "Evil New Year 2018" campaign. On January 2nd of 2018, the "Evil New Year 2018" was started. This campaign copies the approach of the 2017 "Evil New Year" campaign. The links between the different campaigns include shared code and compiler artifacts such as PDB (Program DataBase) patterns which were present throughout these campaigns. Based on our analysis, the "Golden Time", both "Evil New Year" and the "North Korean Human Rights" campaigns specifically targeted South Korean users. The attackers used spear phishing emails combined with malicious HWP documents created using Hancom Hangul Office Suite. Group 123 has been known to use exploits (such as CVE-2013-0808) or scripting languages harnessing OLE objects. The purpose of the malicious documents was to install and to execute ROKRAT, a remote administration tool (RAT). On occasion the attackers directly included the ROKRAT payload in the malicious document and during other campaigns the attackers leveraged multi-stage infection processes: the document only contained a downloader designed to download ROKRAT from a compromised web server. Additionally, the "FreeMilk" campaign targeted several non-Korean financial institutions. In this campaign, the attackers made use of a malicious Microsoft Office document, a deviation from their normal use of Hancom documents. This document exploited a newer vulnerability, CVE-2017-0199. Group 123 used this vulnerability less than one month after its public disclosure. During this campaign, the attackers used 2 different malicious binaries: PoohMilk and Freenki. PoohMilk exists only to launch Freenki. Freenki is used to gather information about the infected system and to download a subsequent stage payload. This malware was used in several campaigns in 2016 and has some code overlap with ROKRAT. Finally, we identified a 6th campaign that is also linked to Group 123. We named this 6th campaign "Are You Happy?". In this campaign, the attackers deployed a disk wiper. The purpose of this attack was not only to gain access to the remote infected systems but to also wipe the first sectors of the device. We identified that the wiper is a ROKRAT module. This actor was very active this year and continued to mainly focus on South Korea. The group leveraged spear phishing campaigns and malicious documents the contents of which included very specific language suggesting that they were crafted by native Korean speakers rather than through the use of translation services. The actor has the following demonstrated capabilities: To include exploits (for Hangul and Microsoft Office) in its workflows. To modify its campaigns by splitting the payload in to multiple stages To use compromised web servers or legitimate cloud based platforms. To use HTTPS communications to make it harder to perform traffic analysis. To compromise third parties to forge realistic spear phishing campaigns (i.e. Yonsei university in the "Golden Time" campaign). To constantly evolve, the new fileless capability included in 2018 is a proof. August 2016 to March 2017: "Golden Time" Campaign As with the majority of Group 123 campaigns, the initial attack vector during this campaign was spear phishing. Talos identified two different kinds of emails. The first email we discovered was the most interesting. In this sample, we observed the attackers praising the user for joining a panel related to the "Korean Reunification and North Korean Conference". The text in the email explained that the recipient should complete the attached document to provide necessary feedback. This appears to be a non-existent conference. The closest match we identified related to any Unification conference was held in January 2017, which was the NYDA Reunification conference. The sender was 'kgf2016@yonsei.ac.kr' which is the contact email of the Korea Global Forum, a separate conference. When we analyzed the email headers, we determined that the email was sent from an SMTP server using an IP associated with the Yonsei University network. We believe that the email address was compromised and abused by the attackers to send the email used in this campaign. The filename for the malicious attachment translates as 'Unification North Korea Conference _ Examination Documents' which reinforces the text in the email about the reunification conference. For an added bonus, in the body of the email, the attacker even suggests that people who completed the document would get paid a 'small fee'. Perhaps the gift of embedded malware is the payment: Much less effort was used to craft the second email Talos analyzed. The email was from a free Korean mail service provided by Daum, Hanmail, indicating that there was no attempt to try to appear as if it originated from an official body or person, unlike the previous email described. The subject was simply 'Request Help' while the attachment filename was 'I'm a munchon person in Gangwon-do, North Korea'. We suspect the attacker was trying to generate sympathy by reminding the reader that Munchon and the province it is in, Kangwon, were part of a unified province that included South Korea's Gangwon-do prior to the division of Korea in 1945. A second email contained a story about a person called 'Ewing Kim' who was looking for help: The email's attachments are two different HWP documents, both leveraging same vulnerability (CVE-2013-0808). This vulnerability targets the EPS (Encapsulated PostScript) format. The purpose of the shellcode is to download a payload from the Internet. The first email displays the following decoy document to the infected user and download the following payload, The second email displays the following decoy document to the infected user and downloads the following payload, In both cases, the downloaded payload is the ROKRAT malware. The first tasks of this variant of ROKRAT is to check the operating system version. If Windows XP is detected, the malware executes an infinite loop. The purpose is to generate empty reports if opened on sandbox systems running Windows XP machines. Additionally it checks to determine if common analysis tools are currently running on the infected system. If it detects the presence of these tools, the malware performs two network requests to legitimate websites.One of the identifying characteristics of ROKRAT is the fact that it uses social network and cloud platforms to communicate with the attackers. These platforms are used to exfiltrate documents and receive instructions. Here is a list of the platforms used by this variant: Twitter, Yandex and Mediafire. The tokens for each platform are hardcoded within the sample. November 2016 to January 2017: "Evil New Year" Campaign In the early part of 2017, Group123 started the "Evil New Year" campaign. In this campaign the actors tried to fool victims by pretending the emails were from the Korean Ministry of Unification and that they offered Korean-specific analysis. This campaign began with a handful of spear phishing emails to South Korean targets and containing malicious attachments. Group123 further attempted to entice victims to open the attachments by using common Hancom Hangul documents. Hancom's Hangul is a popular Office Suite used primarily in the Korean peninsula. The use of Hangul office documents has the advantage of being the norm for the Korean peninsula. If the attacker used Microsoft documents, it may have raised suspicions in the victim. Given the regional file format used there is a chance that some security software suites may not handle them well, and this may have provided an evasion case for the attacker. The documents sent to the targets were titled "Analysis of "Northern New Year in 2017" and used the official logo of the Korean Ministry of Unification. This is a simple choice for the actor to make, but it further shows their familiarity with the region.The document claimed to discuss the New Year's activities of North Korea and this would have been something that the victims in South Korea would be very interested in. This would have been particularly true for Government targets, who we believe to be Group123's target of choice. This document was a decoy aimed to entice the user to open malicious documents embedded further down the page.The actor embedded two additional links and the document urged the user to click on these links for more information about New Year's activities in North Korea. The first link was labeled as "Comparison of Major Tasks in '16 & '17" and the second link was identified as "Comparison between '16 & '17". Upon opening these links the user was presented with a further decoy Hangul document. This document was well written and further increases our confidence that we are dealing with a new Korean actor. These documents contained malicious OLE objects used to drop binaries.This time, however, they contained malicious OLE (Object Link Embedded) objects.Initial analysis confirmed two similarly sized OLE object files within this document which appeared to be the same from an execution point of view. The two dropped binaries were stored and executed in this location during our analysis: C:\Users\ADMINI~1\AppData\Local\Temp\Hwp (2).exe C:\Users\ADMINI~1\AppData\Local\Temp\Hwp (3).exe Initial analysis showed some sloppy cleaning up from Group123, which we used later to determine that separate campaigns were the work of this same actor, as compilation artifacts remained within the binaries: e:\Happy\Work\Source\version 12\T+M\Result\DocPrint.pdb The second stage of the dropped binaries was used to execute wscript.exe while injecting shellcode into this process. The shellcode is embedded within the resource 'BIN' and is used to unpack another PE32 binary and use wscript.exe to execute it. To do this, Group123 uses a well-known technique that harnesses VirtualAllocEx(), WriteProcessMemory() and CreateRemoteThread() Windows API calls. The new PE32 unpacked from the shellcode is an initial reconnaissance malware which is used to communicate with the C2 infrastructure to obtain the final payload. The information this malware collected included the following: The computer name The username The execution path of the sample The BIOS model A randomly-generated ID to uniquely identify the system Group123 utilized this method to ensure their victim was (a) someone they wanted to target further and (b) someone they could infect further based on the information obtained from the reconnaissance phase. Further network analysis showed that the binary attempted to connect to the following URLs: www[.]kgls[.]or[.]kr/news2/news_dir/index.php www[.]kgls[.]or[.]kr/news2/news_dir/02BC6B26_put.jpg Korean Government Legal Services (KGLS) is a legitimate Korean government body that manages Korean government legal affairs. By compromising the KGLS, the attacker gained a trusted platform from which to execute an attack. The initial network connection is to 'index.php'. This connection transmits the information gathered during the reconnaissance phase. The attacker uses this information to then determine the specific filename (based on the random ID) to serve to the infected victim. In our case this was 02BC6B26 - this meant a file "02BC6B26_put.jpg" was created for us on the attackers C2. This file is then dropped and renamed 'officepatch.exe' on the victim's machine. Because the attacker was careful about who they attacked, we were unable to obtain this file during our analysis. During our investigation we were able to identify additional Command and Control infrastructure used by this actor. Four C2s were observed, based in the following countries: 3 C2 in South Korea 1 C2 in the Netherlands Here is a global map of the identified infrastructure:Contrary to the previous campaign, the attackers separated the reconnaissance phase from the main ROKRAT payload. This trick was likely used to avoid detection. This is an interesting adaptation in Group 123's behavior. March 2017: "Are You Happy?" Campaign In March 2017, Group 123 compiled a disk wiper. The malware contains 1 function, the purpose is to open the drive of the infected system (\\.\PhysicalDrive0) and write the following data to the MBR,You can see the "Are you Happy?" string in the written buffer. After writing to the MBR, the malware reboots the machine with the following command: c:\windows\system32\shutdown /r /t 1 After the reboot, the MBR displays the following string to the user,The link to the other campaigns was the following PDB path: D:\HighSchool\version 13\VC2008(Version15)\T+M\T+M\TMProject\Release\ErasePartition.pdb As you can see, it perfectly matches the ROKRAT PDB. This wiper is a ROKRAT module named ERSP.enc. We assume that ERSP means ERaSePartition. This module can be downloaded and executed on demand by Group 123. This sample is interesting considering the attack in December 2014 against a Korean power plant where the message that was displayed by the wiper was "Who Am I?". May 2017: "FreeMilk" Campaign This campaign targeted non-Korean financial institutions, but unlike the other campaigns, this one does not use HWP documents. It instead uses Office documents. This change is because Group 123 did not target South Korea during this campaign and Microsoft Office is standard in the rest of the world.The registry location where persistence is achieved is: HKCU\Software\Microsoft\Windows\CurrentVersion\Run\Windows Update. At the next reboot, the malware will be executed. The second action is to check if the file "wsatra.tmp" exists in the temporary directory of the current user. If this file exists, the content is read in order to obtain a path to find a second file with the LNK (link) extension. The LNK file is finally used to identify a third file: a ZIP file. The file will be inflated in order to retrieve a RTF document, this document will be displayed to the infected user by executing Wordpad.November 2017: "North Korean Human Rights" Campaign In November 2017, Talos observed the latest Group123 campaign of the year, which included a new version of ROKRAT being used in the latest wave of attacks. Group 123 again used one of their main calling cards, the malicious HWP document. This time, Group 123 used a document containing information in relation to a meeting held on 1st November in Seoul, South Korea. This document was alleged to have been written by a legal representative claiming to be representing the "Citizens' Alliance For North Korean Human Rights And Reunification Of Korean Peninsula". Group 123 once again uses information related to the Korean unification and now are claiming to highlight concerns related to human rights issues. The document brought Talos a new gift - a new version of ROKRAT. Following on with the normal Group 123 activity the document was written in perfect Korean text and dialect again suggesting the origin of this group is from the Korean peninsula.Further analysis of the document text allowed us to understand the context. The document mentions 'Community of North Korean human rights and unification' with the lawyer claiming to be part of the "Citizen's Alliance for North Korean Human Rights and North-South unification". The main purpose of this document was an attempt to arrange a meeting to discuss items related to "North Korean Human Rights Act" and "Enactment of a Law" which was passed in 2016 in South Korea. We believe that the document was attempting to target stakeholders within the 'μ¬μΈν†µ' community in an attempt to entice them to join the discussion in an attempt to work on additional ideas related to these activities. The meeting was due to take place on November 1, 2017 and this document was trying to garner additional interest prior to the meeting. Once again Group 123 leveraged the use of OLE objects within the HWP document. Analysis starts with a zlib decompression (a standard action of HWP documents) and we're able to recover the following script.This script is executed and is used to decode a static base64 string within the strEncode variable. Using base64 encoding the decoded binary is stored as HncModuleUpdate.exe and is then executed. This is the ROKRAT dropper. Talos suspect the filename may have been selected to make it appear within running processes as a potential Hancom updater. The dropper is used to extract a new resource named SBS. This specific resource contains malicious shellcode used by the malware. Additionally we see a cmd.exe process launched and used for process injection using the VirtualAlloc(), WriteProcessMemory() and CreateRemoteThread() Windows APIs, as with the first finding of ROKRAT they continue to use similar Windows APIs. The following graph view from IDA shows these steps.These execution steps allow the launch of the new ROKRAT variant by decoding the PE binary and injecting into the cmd.exe process. One of Group 123 oddities in this campaign was to drop the following picture as a decoy image to the user. This image shows various publicly available images which look to be related to the Korean 'Independence Movement' and appear to be related to the Korean war.We began performing further in-depth analysis on this new version of ROKRAT and this is where we started to notice some similarities with Group 123s "Evil New Years" campaign. The similitudes are discussed later in this paper. This ROKRAT variant contained anti-sandbox techniques. This is performed by checking if the following libraries are loaded on the victim machine. SbieDll.dll (sandboxie library) Dbghelp.dll (Microsoft debugging tools) Api_log.dll (threatAnalyzer / GFI SandBox) Dir_watch.dll (threatAnalyzer / GFI SandBox) We were able to uncover some other techniques used by this variant of ROKRAT to make analysis difficult, Group 123 used an anti-debugging technique related to NOP (No Operation).South Korea is becoming an important target for malicious actors and the techniques used are becoming specific to the region (for example: use of native language to try and ensure the targets feel that the information, document or email being sent to them has added legitimacy). In a specific campaign, this actor took time to compromise multiple legitimate Korean platforms including Yonsei and the KGLS in order to forge the spear phishing campaign or to host the command and control. This approach is not common with less advanced actors and demonstrates a high level of maturity and knowledge of the Korean region. However Group 123's activities are not limited to South Korea. For international targets, they are able to switch to a more standard attack vector such as using Microsoft Office documents as opposed to the specific HWP documents used when targeting victims located in Korea. Group 123 does not hesitate to use public exploits and scripting languages to drop and execute malicious payloads. We can notice that this group uses compromised legitimate websites (mainly Wordpress) and cloud platforms to communicate with the infected systems. This approach makes it difficult to detect communications through analysis of these network flows. Even if the arsenal of this actor is diverse, we have identified some patterns, copy-paste code from various public repositories and similarities between the different piece of code. In addition to the Remote Administration Tools, we identified a wiper. We conclude that this group was involved in a campaign of intelligence gathering and finally attempted destruction. With our current knowledge of this actor, we predict that they will not disappear anytime soon and will continue to be active during the coming years. Group 123 is constantly evolving as the new fileless capability that was added to ROKRAT demonstrates. We also believe their target profile may change but for now it will mostly focus on Korean peninsula targets, however, as explained their capabilities will likely continue to evolve over time as they further refine their TTPs.