Scattered Spider (also known as UNC3944 and Roasted 0ktapus) is a relatively new, financially motivated threat group that has been active since at least May 2022. The group is yet to receive a Microsoft designation but will fall into the Tempest (financially motivated) category once registered. The group commonly gains initial network access via stolen credentials obtained from SMS phishing operations and have been detected utilising Azure Serial Console to attain administrative console access to virtual machines (VMs) whilst executing a command prompt over the serial port. Scattered Spider are reported to use a loader named ‘STONESTOP’ to install a malicious signed driver dubbed ‘POORTRY’, which is designed to terminate processes associated with security software and to delete files as part of a Bring Your Own Vulnerable Driver (BYOVD) attack. The group has been attributed to creating the STONESTOP and POORTRY toolkit to terminate security software. Historically, Scattered Spider has mainly gained initial access to the victim environment via theft of administrative credentials by email and SMS phishing attacks or the use of stealware. Once credentials have been obtained, Scattered Spider use these to impersonate the admin and use sensitive data to gain access to the environment. Furthermore, they have also been observed continuing phishing attacks against other users, by leveraging the employee database. This is likely to maintain persistence and provides them with lateral movement within the network. Scattered Spider have targeted many sectors during their time in operation, including telecommunication, Business Process Outsourcing (BPO), Managed Security Service Provider (MSSP), financial services, cryptocurrency, entertainment, and transportation sectors. The motives of Scattered Spider can be evaluated by observing the strategies they apply within the context of their campaigns. Due to their target set, as well as the list of intrusion methods attributed to the group, it is highly likely Scattered Spider operations are motivated on the basis of financial gain. June – December 2022: Scattered Spider targeted telecommunications and BPO companies to gain access to mobile carrier networks and perform SIM swapping. January 2023: Scattered Spider initiated a BYOVD attack campaign against various targets to exploit a high-severity vulnerability (CVE-2015-2291) in the Intel Ethernet diagnostics driver. January 2023: Scattered Spider deploys phishing web pages to expand their target scope to include technology sector organisations . May 2023: Scattered Spider expand their attack vector arsenal by abusing the Microsoft Azure Serial Console on virtual machines (VMs) to install third-party remote management tools within target environments . BURNTCIGAR: Scattered Spider utilise this malware loader to disable endpoint detection tools and to exploit vulnerabilities in security systems to terminate defence services. Cuba Ransomware (COLDDRAW): A ransomware variant that is delivered via malspam campaigns or the Hancitor loader. POORTRY: A Windows kernel driver that terminates security software and deletes files as a component of BYOVD attacks. It is often used in conjunction with a userland component called STONESTOP, which installs the POORTRY driver and instructs it on what actions to perform. The first signed POORTRY drivers were observed in June 2022, whereby Scattered Spider were attributed to the creation of the respective toolkits. STONESTOP: Scattered Spider utilise this tool to install and command operations of the POORTRY Windows kernel driver.