Relations between India and China have deteriorated significantly following border clashes in May 2020 that resulted in the first combat deaths in 45 years between the world’s two most populous nations. As a result, on January 12, 2021, India’s foreign minister Subrahmanyam Jaishankar announced that trust between India and China was “profoundly disturbed.” While diplomacy and economic factors have been effective in preventing a full-blown war, notable most recently with the bilateral disengagement at the border, cyber operations continue to provide countries with a potent asymmetric capability to conduct espionage or pre-position within networks for potentially disruptive reasons. Since early 2020, Recorded Future’s Insikt Group observed a large increase in suspected targeted intrusion activity against Indian organizations from Chinese statesponsored groups. From mid-2020 onwards, Recorded Future’s midpoint collection revealed a steep rise in the use of infrastructure tracked as AXIOMATICASYMPTOTE, which encompasses ShadowPad command and control (C2) servers, to target a large swathe of India’s power sector. 10 distinct Indian power sector organizations, including 4 of the 5 Regional Load Despatch Centres (RLDC) responsible for operation of the power grid through balancing electricity supply and demand, have been identified as targets in a concerted campaign against India’s critical infrastructure. Other targets identified included 2 Indian seaports. Using a combination of proactive adversary infrastructure detections, domain analysis, and Recorded Future Network Traffic Analysis, we have determined that a subset of these AXIOMATICASYMPTOTE servers share some common infrastructure tactics, techniques, and procedures (TTPs) with several previously reported Chinese state-sponsored groups, including APT41 and Tonto Team. Despite some overlaps with previous groups, Insikt Group does not currently believe there is enough evidence to firmly attribute the activity in this particular campaign to an existing public group and therefore continue to track it as a closely related but distinct activity group, RedEcho.Recent years have highlighted a growing rivalry between the world’s two most populous countries, as India’s economy and geopolitical ambitions seek to compete with those of China. Since May 5, 2020, Indian and Chinese troops have repeatedly skirmished with one another along the India-China border. Reports indicate several likely causes for the escalation, including China’s being more assertive in border regions in light of international pressure over the handling of the COVID-19 pandemic, and India’s construction of transportation infrastructure in contested areas. China reportedly amassed a large concentration of troops near the border with India following the initial border escalation, and the dispute appears unresolved. In June 2020, the Indian government announced it was banning the video-sharing social media platform TikTok from the country, citing fears that the app, whose parent company is the Chinese tech giant ByteDance, might be used to collect data on citizens and potentially also be used for espionage to benefit the Chinese government through a wide-ranging cybersecurity law. By late-November 2020, the Indian government had subsequently banned over 200 Chinese apps in what was described as a “Digital Strike’’ in response to the Sino-Indian border clashes by India’s technology minister.These escalating tensions have also been reflected through increased cyber espionage activity by both sides. For example, we observed the suspected Indian state-sponsored group Sidewinder target Chinese military and government entities in 2020, in activity overlapping with recent Trend Micro research. In the lead-up to the May 2020 skirmishes, we observed a noticeable increase in the provisioning of PlugX malware C2 infrastructure, much of which was subsequently used in intrusion activity targeting Indian organizations. The PlugX activity included the targeting of multiple Indian government, public sector, and defense organizations from at least May 2020. Detailed reporting on these suspected intrusions is available to Recorded Future clients. While not unique to Chinese cyber espionage activity, PlugX has been heavily used by China-nexus groups for many years. Throughout the remainder of 2020, we identified a heavy focus on the targeting of Indian government and private sector organizations by multiple Chinese statesponsored threat activity groups.ShadowPad is a modular backdoor first identified in the Netsarang compromise in 2017, an intrusion later attributed to APT41 (BARIUM) by FireEye. While ShadowPad was initially considered exclusive to APT41, additional China-nexus groups began using ShadowPad in network intrusion campaigns from late 2019. We assess that the sharing of ShadowPad is prevalent across groups affiliated with both Chinese Ministry of State Security (MSS) and groups affiliated with the People’s Liberation Army (PLA), and is likely linked to the presence of a centralized ShadowPad developer or quartermaster responsible for maintaining and updating the tool. Presently, we are aware of at least 5 Chinese threat activity groups using ShadowPad, including APT41, Tonto Team, groups using the Icefog malware, KeyBoy, and Tick. Most recently, ShadowPad infrastructure was also connected to a compromise impacting the Mongolian business management suite Able Software. This intrusion featured tooling overlaps with Chinesenexus groups TA428 and LuckyMouse, suggesting that the sharing of ShadowPad across Chinese threat activity groups continues to increase.In September 2020, 5 Chinese APT41 operators were indicted by the United States (US) government and linked to the front company Chengdu 404 Network Technology. One of the accused previously claimed to be “very close” to the MSS, continuing an established trend of Chinese private contractors and front companies conducting cyber espionage activity on behalf of the MSS. Conversely, Tonto Team has been linked to the PLA, specifically the Shenyang Military Region Technical Reconnaissance Bureau. ShadowPad is the latest in a long line of examples of custom capabilities being shared across disparate Chinese threat activity groups for use in cyber espionage activity.The network infrastructure used in ShadowPad infections is tracked by Insikt Group as AXIOMATICASYMPTOTE. This technique fingerprints unique characteristics including header responses and similar network components. Using a combination of proactive infrastructure detections, domain analysis, and network traffic analysis, we have determined that a subset of these AXIOMATICASYMPTOTE servers are being used by a China-linked activity group we track as RedEcho, to target a large swath of India’s power sector.A subset of the RedEcho AXIOMATICASYMPTOTE servers listed in table 1 below were configured with domains spoofing various Indian power generation and electricity transmission entities. For example, the ntpc-co[.]com domain is likely a typosquat of ntpc[.]co[.]in, the website of Indian power generation company NTPC Limited. The domain was first registered in July 2019, as noted in the Recorded Future new domain registration feed:Typosquat and brand abuse detection are two of the many features of Recorded Future’s Brand Intelligence module, enabling organizations to proactively hunt for suspicious infrastructure as it is being established by adversaries.Insikt Group profiled the identified RedEcho operational infrastructure and identified a pattern of behavior, in line with the concept of viewing network indicators as composite objects. RedEcho’s operational infrastructure modus operandi in the identified intrusion campaign can be summarized as follows:While none of these characteristics are individually unique to RedEcho, viewing these holistically identified unique behaviors in combination is likely indicative of RedEcho activity. Based on these highlighted TTPs, we identified additional domains that were likely related, which featured overlaps with known AXIOMATICASYMPTOTE servers as well as historical hosting data for domains within the highlighted infrastructure cluster. Further pivots constrained to shared historic hosting infrastructure identified a further cluster of RedEcho dynamic DNS (DDNS) domains which share the same Indian-themed domain naming pattern and links to AXIOMATICASYMPTOTE servers:Derived from Recorded Future Network Traffic Analysis, we were able to determine a clear and consistent pattern of Indian organizations being targeted in this campaign through the behavioral profiling of network traffic to adversary infrastructure. Much of the observed network activity inbound to the AXIOMATICASYMPTOTE infrastructure was over SSL via TCP port 443. We also noted substantial inbound traffic to the AXIOMATICASYMPTOTE infrastructure indicative of HTTP proxying activity over TCP 8080 and DNS requests (UDP 53) for the C2 domains hosted on AXIOMATICASYMPTOTE servers (see below Infrastructure section).In total, we identified 21 IP addresses resolving to 10 distinct Indian organizations in the power generation and transmission sector that were targeted, with a further 2 organizations in the maritime sector. All 12 organizations likely qualify as critical infrastructure, per the Indian National Critical Information Infrastructure Protection Centre (NCIIPC) definition. Within India’s power sector, RedEcho conducted suspected network intrusions targeting at least 4 out of the country’s 5 Regional Load Despatch Centres (RLDCs), alongside 2 State Load Despatch Centres (SLDCs). RLDCs and SLDCs are Figure 6: Suspected Indian power sector victims of RedEcho targeted intrusions (Source: Recorded Future, Map data ©2021 Google) responsible for ensuring real-time integrated operation of India’s power grid through balancing electricity supply and demand to maintain a stable grid frequency. Additionally, local media reporting previously linked an October 2020 power outage in Mumbai to the identification of malware at a Padgha-based State Load Despatch Centre. At this time, the alleged link between the outage and the discovery of the unspecified malware variant remains unsubstantiated. However, this disclosure provides additional evidence suggesting the coordinated targeting of Indian Load Despatch Centres.Other RedEcho intrusions within the Indian power sector included the targeting of a high-voltage transmission substation and a coal-fired thermal power plant. The targeting of these critical power assets offer limited economic espionage opportunities, but pose significant concerns over potential pre-positioning of network access to support other Chinese strategic objectives. Finally ,two Indian seaports were also targeted by RedEcho. The high concentration of IPs resolving to Indian critical infrastructure entities that were identified communicating with a distinct subset of AXIOMATICASYMPTOTE servers ,indicate a targeted campaign with little evidence of wider targeting in Recorded Future’s network telemetry.At least 3 of the targeted Indian IP addresses were previously seen in a suspected APT41/Barium-linked campaign targeting the Indian Oil and Gas sectors in November.2020 An even larger proportion of the RedEcho-targeted Indian IP addresses were observed communicating with 2 AXIOMATICASYMPTOTE servers hosting a large number of DDNS domains (91.204.224[.]14 and 91.204.225[.]216). This included overlaps with APT41/Barium activity previously reported by Microsoft, such as the domain bguha.serveuser[.]com. Figure 7: Location of suspected victim NTPC Kudgi STPP (Source: Imagery ©2021 CNES/Airbus, Maxar Technologies, Map data ©Google) Historical hosting overlaps also exist between RedEcho DDNS domain railway.sytes[.]net and the previously reported APT41/Barium cluster. However, it is important to note that several DDNS domains attributed to Barium by Microsoft were also previously linked to Tonto Team threat activity in public reporting from Trend Micro. In their report, Trend Micro also noted that Tonto Team targeted India’s Oil and Gas and Energy industries. Despite some overlaps with previously detected APT41/ Barium-linked activity and possible further overlaps with Tonto Team activity, we currently do not believe there is enough evidence to firmly attribute the activity in this particular Indian power sector targeting to either group and therefore continue to track it as a closely related, but distinct, activity group, RedEcho.Recorded Future’s Security Intelligence Graph continues to evolve by distilling vast swaths of open source, dark web, and technical data and combining it with the intimate knowledge of attacker tradecraft from analysts. Pioneered within Insikt Group and Data Science and forming a core piece of this research has been the development of new Network Traffic Analysis analytics that enable users to discover and track suspected targeted intrusion activity derived from validated technical data sources. As documented recently in our 2020 Adversary Infrastructure Report, we proactively detect malicious infrastructure using a combination of passive and active scanning approaches. In 2020, over 10,000 unique servers used by malicious threat actors were identified in this manner. We apply a series of filters and algorithms to spot suspicious network traffic concerning these detected malicious servers, highlighting possible targeted intrusion activity. Intelligence Card extensions within the Recorded Future Platform then allow users to enrich this information further using data from close partners such as SecurityTrails, thereby enabling Recorded Future Threat Intelligence or SecOps module users to efficiently map out prospective adversary campaigns.We recommend that users conduct the following measures to detect and mitigate activity associated with RedEcho activity:In this research, we outlined a series of suspected targeted intrusions against India’s power sector that were observed beginning in mid-2020. The intrusions were conducted by a China-linked activity group we track as RedEcho. The group made heavy use of AXIOMATICASYMPTOTE — a term we use to track infrastructure that comprises ShadowPad C2s, which is shared between several Chinese threat activity groups, including APT41/Barium, Tonto team, the Icefog cluster, KeyBoy, and Tick. The intrusions overlap with previous Indian energy sector targeting by Chinese threat activity groups in 2020 that also used AXIOMATICASYMPTOTE infrastructure. Therefore, the focus in targeting India’s electricity system possibly indicates a sustained strategic intent to access India’s energy infrastructure. Network access to Regional Load Despatch Centres provide minimal benefit for economic espionage objectives, but are of strategic interest to enable access pre-positioning for a variety of potential outcomes such as:As bilateral tensions continue to rise, we expect to see a continued increase in cyber operations being conducted by China-linked groups such as RedEcho in line with national strategic interests. While economic recovery from the impact of the coronavirus pandemic will be a priority for both countries, the increasing rhetoric and the kinetic escalation of border tensions suggests there is clearly mistrust and uncertainty within each government. Further, China will likely also continue to exert influence over other nations, particularly those that are within the sphere of influence of their BRI investment program, which may lead to more cyber operations aimed at furthering strategic advantage.Readers can access the indicators listed below in our public Insikt Group Github repository: https://github.com/Insikt-Group/ Research (RedEcho - February 2021).Recorded Future’s research group, Insikt, tracks threat actors and their activity, focusing on state actors from China, Iran, Russia, and North Korea, as well as cyber criminals - individuals and groups - from Russia, CIS states, China, Iran, and Brazil. We emphasize tracking activity groups and where possible, attributing them to nation state government, organizations, or affiliate institutions.Insikt Group names a new threat activity group or campaign when analysts have data corresponding to at least three points on the Diamond Model of Intrusion Analysis with at least medium confidence, derived from our Security Intelligence Graph. We can tie this to a threat actor only when we can point to a handle, persona, person, or organization responsible. We will write about the activity as a campaign in the absence of this level of adversary data. We use the most widely-utilized or recognized name for a particular group when the public body of empirical evidence is clear the activity corresponds to a known group. Insikt Group utilizes a simple color and phonetic alphabet naming convention for new nation state threat actor groups or campaigns. The color corresponds to that nation’s flag colors, currently represented below, with more color/nation pairings to be added as we identify and attribute new threat actor groups associated with new nations. For newly identified cybercriminal groups, Insikt Group uses a naming convention corresponding to the Greek alphabet. Where we have identified a criminal entity connected to a particular country, we will use the appropriate country color, and where that group may be tied to a specific government organization, tie it to that entity specifically. Insikt Group uses mathematical terms when naming newly identified malware.