Gorgon Group was first suspected as existing when cyber security research firm Unit 42 began tracking a Pakistani attack known as Subaat, which commenced in 2017 and targeted a US organization with phishing attacks. Technical analysis of this incident began to suggest that the attackers were working with a wider organization, dubbed Gorgon. Gorgon is notable as a group because it was attributed to the 2019 US$160 million MasterMana Botnet hack, which targeted corporations around the world with the intent to, among other goals, steal credentials associated with crypto wallets. Indeed, Gorgon’s latest attack vectors are very similar to those used in the MasterMana days.Gorgon Group has been known to use three attack vectors: Using common third-party services (i.e. Discord and PowerPoint) to install malicious software on the victim computer. Users click on a link in Discord to download what looks like an innocent file, but the file contains a trojanized macro that begins process hollowing in order to inject a piece of malware known as Azorult into the system undetected. a) Azorult is a well-known credential harvesting malware which can also upload or download files and take screenshots. The second vector does not rely so much on third parties. Through a phishing email campaign, users are prompted to open an Excel document. Another malicious macro downloads a file (this time masquerading as a .JPG) from a domain controlled by the APT. The .JPG actually contains ASCII text which reveals a PowerShell script that disables Windows Defender and Windows updates, then downloads an HTML executable. The third vector relies more on Gorgon-controlled infrastructure. Phishing emails trick victims into downloading a spoofed file with another malicious macro, which then downloads an ASCII text file pretending to be an image. The PowerShell script in this vector initiates a multi-step process that downloads as many as four new files, each preparing the system to eventually install a remote-access trojan called njRat for credential harvesting and stealing other confidential information.The United States and Germany accounted for 21% and 11% respectively of Gorgon’s victims, specifically of their first attack vector (Prevailion). The US was also a major target of vector two, as was South Korea and India. Switzerland and Singapore made up the majority of targets for vector three. Some data also suggests the group had an interest in European affairs as well as the utilities sector in the UAE (Dubai in particular). Unit 42 has also detected Gorgon Group targeting US, Russian and Spanish organizations operating in Pakistan.