APT group called Donot Team (aka APT-C-35, SectorE02) has been active since at least 2012. The attackers hunt for confidential information and intellectual property. The hackers' targets include countries in South Asia, in particular, state sector of Pakistan. In 2019, we noticed their activity in Bangladesh, Thailand, India, Sri Lanka, the Philippines, and outside of Asia, in places like Argentina, the United Arab Emirates, and Great Britain. For several months, we have been monitoring changes in the code of this group's malicious loaders. In this article, we will review one of the attack vectors, will talk about the loaders in more detail, and will touch upon the peculiarity of the network infrastructure. At the early stage of infection, the victim receives an MS Word document in Office Open XML format. Even though we do not have clear evidence, we are sure that the initial penetration vector is a targeted phishing message with MS Office attachment. The document itself is not malicious, but it abuses the external elements autoloading capability to launch the next stage document. The loaded fine is an RTF document exploiting vulnerability CVE-2018-0802 in Microsoft Equation. The main shellcode is preceded by a chain of intermediate ones, each decrypting the subsequent slice with a single-byte XOR with keys 0x90 and 0xCE. Despite their classification, the trojans have different objectives. For instance, file Serviceflow.exe acts as a watchdog. It collects the following information about the system: Despite their classification, the trojans have different objectives. For instance, file Serviceflow.exe acts as a watchdog. It collects the following information about the system: As a result of malicious loaders' activity, components of framework yty are inserted into the system, allowing the attackers to get more details about their victim, including files with a certain extension, intercepted input strings, list of processes, and screenshots. We will not discuss plugins in this article. When we studied other similar samples, we found some paths and project names left in the debugging information including the following： In addition to substring yty 2.0 connecting the trojans with the framework, we also noticed substring Lo2, which may be an abbreviation from Loader 2. In loaders versions before mid-2018, all used strings were stored in the file in cleartext. In subsequent builds, the attackers started encrypting the strings. In different versions, the following changes were made to the algorithm: When we were writing the decryption script, we found that some strings couldn’t be decrypted. But then we found that these lines can still be decrypted with one of the decryption methods mentioned earlier. After we verified that each sample uses only one decryption method, we concluded that the attackers had simply forgotten to delete unused strings or replace them with those correctly encrypted for the next version of the malware. Such mistakes are always advantageous for the researchers. For instance, the strings left by the attackers often contained the attackers' control servers which we did not know about before.To complete the picture, we want to point out some typical features which can help you make a connection between the group's attacks in the future. Donot Team is known to use their own tools at every stage of the attack. On the one hand, the group uses various techniques to make code analysis more difficult, but on the other hand, it does not attempt to hide or disguise their actions in the system. Multipleattacks on the same targets can be indicative of particular interest in the chosen range of victims. This can also mean that the used tactics and techniques are not very efficient.