Mustang Panda (aka Bronze President) is a cyber espionage threat actor based in China. Like many other APT groups, Musang Panda is recognized by several names, such as HoneyMyte, Red Lich, TEMP.HEX, TA416, RedDelta, LuminousMoth, and PKPLUG. Its goal apparently is to provide China with the necessary intel to avoid bad press or influence policies in other nations. For instance, during the Russia-Ukraine war, the threat actor targeted European organizations via documents carrying topics and news related to Russia’s attack on Ukraine. The threat actor is believed to be conducting operations since at least 2014, however, it was first spotted in 2017. The group is highly agile and keeps updating its attack tactics based on the change in objectives or the threat landscape. It is presumably one of the most active Chinese APT groups at present. Mustang Panda has been observed sending phishing emails with malicious document attachments as an initial infection vector. These documents are designed to mimic genuine documents related to the targeted government, NGO, or government entity. Upon gaining a foothold within the network of a target organization, hackers deploy a variety of payloads, such as Poison Ivy, Cobalt Strike, or PlugX, in their campaigns. Moreover, the threat group is capable of developing its own custom malicious loaders. The threat group was found to be capable of rapidly incorporating new tools and tactics into its operations, as was observed by its use of exploit code for CVE-2017-0199 just a few days after public disclosure. During the height of the COVID-19 pandemic, Mustang Panda impersonated trusted bodies, such as the WHO, in phishing emails and claimed to offer free protective equipment and supplies to potential victims. In June, the group was observed using Cobalt Strike with a jQuery C2 profile to download the final payload. It used fake resumes as lure documents in spear-phishing emails. Next month, the group used spear-phishing emails laden with Windows executables enclosed in ZIP and RAR archives. In a different attack, it used a malicious DLL file that installed malware using DLL-sideloading. The final payload dropped was PlugX. In March, Mustang Panda was observed exploiting a Microsoft Exchange Server via one of the most severe and impactful chain of ProxyLogon bugs (CVE-2021-26855, CVE-2021-27065). In addition, the attackers used a living-off-the-land technique and used trusted binaries to evade antivirus detection. For instance, it was observed using the Microsoft Windows binary bitsadmin[.]exe to sharpen its attacks without raising any red flags. In June, the group allegedly hacked the website of the Myanmar president’s office and planted a backdoor trojan in a localized Myanmar font package available for download. In December, the threat group was observed using the PlugX malware through USB drives to transfer data from air-gapped networks. In March, the APT group targeted European entities with lures associated with the Ukrainian invasion. The same month, the threat group was observed using web bugs to target victims before delivering malicious URLs used for installing a variety of PlugX malware payloads (such as Hodur). In April, cybercriminals used phishing lure documents written in English (but files named in the Russian language), supposed to be published by the European Union, and had details related to sanctions against Belarus. In May, Mustang Panda hackers were observed using phishing emails to deliver fake official European Union and Ukrainian government reports that downloaded malware onto targeted machines. In November, the threat group abused fake Google accounts to spread the malware via spear-phishing emails. The malware was embedded in an archive file (RAR, ZIP, JAR) and spread through Google Drive links. Users were then lured into clicking the malicious links, eventually downloading malware to execute Toneins, ToneShell, and PubLoad. Since its inception in 2017, the threat group has spread its wings to target government entities, nonprofits, religious, and other Non-Governmental Organizations (NGOs) in the U.S., Europe, Myanmar, Mongolia, Vietnam, and Pakistan. Moreover, its strains have been found in the networks of NGOs and government agencies in Mongolia and the European region. When Mustang Panda was just an unidentified threat group in 2017, it targeted a U.S.-based think tank. Further study revealed that the threat group has been targeting NGOs but using decoys and themes in the Mongolian language. In July, the group targeted members of the Hong Kong Catholic Church by impersonating communications from Vatican officials or news articles from the Union of Catholic Asian News. In September, Taiwan's CERT observed the threat group impersonating medical authorities to attack the country's tech industry. In November, the attackers imitated journalists from the Union of Catholic Asia News. In June, it hacked the website of the Myanmar president’s office and planted a backdoor trojan. In July, it targeted hundreds of victims from Myanmar and the Philippines government. In December, it targeted government and private-sector organizations in Southeast Asia. Since early 2022, the threat group has been targeting entities across the European Union, Asia, the U.S., and Russia. In March, it targeted European entities with lures related to the Russian invasion of Ukraine. Most of the victims were located in East and Southeast Asia, Europe, and Africa. The targeted sectors include ISPs, research entities, and European diplomatic missions. In April, the threat group was observed targeting Russian officials with fake reports. In November, a wave of spear-phishing attacks was observed targeting the government, foundations, research, and academic sectors across the world. The malware families used in the campaign exhibit a connection with the Earth Preta (aka Mustang Panda). Mustang Panda is infamous for baiting its victims via spear-phishing email campaigns with geopolitical subject lines. Security teams are recommended to educate employees about how to handle suspicious emails as the first line of defense against cybercrimes. Besides, have you adopted a Threat Intelligence Platform (TIP) yet? Cyware Threat Intelligence eXchange, the industry’s most advanced TIP, helps you step up your defense strategy through threat intel correlation and enrichment using intel generated from internal and external intel sources. For instance, in the case of threat actors such as Mustang Panda, Cyware Threat Intelligence eXchange (CTIX)’s will help you gain comprehensive insights into the TTPs of the threat actor and automate proactive actioning on high-fidelity IOCs even before the attacker strikes. Additionally, the CTIX platform uses a hub and spoke model of sharing information, enabling security teams to collaborate with ISACs, business units, subsidiaries, and vendors to share threat intelligence and proactively stop attacks. Mustang Panda has a long history of targeting nations throughout Southeast Asia, however, the threat group has successfully left its imprints in other regions, including Europe, Central Asia, and North America. Experts surmise that the group will remain a potential threat in the future as well. To stay protected, organizations are suggested to stay vigilant for any possible attacks and be ready with adequate countermeasures.