lran-based group remains highly active and is moving up the telecoms and transport supply chain to facilitate widescale surveillance of targets. Chafer, the lran-based targeted attack group, mounted further operations throwghout 2017, aacking more organizations in the Midle East and beyond,and deploying several new tools. The group staged a number of ambitious new attacks last year,includingthe compromise of a major telecoms servicesprowlder in the region. There is also evidence that it attempted to attack a malor intenational travel reservations firm. chafer appears to be primarlyengaged in survellance and tracking ofindiiduals, with most of its attacks likely carried out to gather information on targets or faclltate survellance Chafer has been active since at least July 2014 and its activities were first exposed by Symantec in Decamber 2015htips./www.symantec.com/connect/blogg/iran-based-attackers-use-back- door-threats-spy*middle-eastern-targets), when it was found to beconducting targeted survellance of domestic and internationaltargets. At the time, many of its targets werelindiiduals located in lran, and it had alreadbegun compromising telecom providers as well as airine companies in the Middle East region.Chafer appears to have been undeterred by its exposure in 2015 and continued to be very active during2017, uslng seven new tools, roling out newinfrastructure, and attacking nine new target organizations in the region. The group hit organizations in israel Jordan, the Whited Arab Emirates, SaudiArebia, and Turkey. Sectors targeted included alrlnes, aircraft services; software and IT services companles serving the air and sea transport sectors;,telecoms serices,payroll services, engineering consultancies; and document management software. Outslde of the liddle East,$ymantec has also found evidence of attacks against one African alrine and attempts to compromise an international travelreservations firm.One of the organizations compromised by Chafer in 2017 was a telecoms services provider inthe Middle East, which ses its solutions to multipletelecoms operators in the reglon. The ultimate goal ofthe atiack may have been to faclltate survellance ofend-user customers oftelecoms operatorsBy moving two steps up the supply chaln the attackers could potentially have carried out survellance on a vast pool of end-users.Alongside evidence of compromise of the organization tself,$ymantec also found a copy of one of the company's own fles, relating to its messagingsoftware, on a staging server used by Chafer. The file was in a dlrectory alongside a number of hacking tools used by the attackers. A second target outside the Midle East provides further confrmation of Chafer's heightened ambitions in recent times. $ymantec found evidence that ithad tried to compromise a large intemationaltravel reservations firm. There was no indication that the attack was successful,but Chafer didsuccessfully infltrate an African airline that is a customer of the reservations firm.In the earler attacks from 2015,$ymantec found evidence that Chafer had been compromising targeted organlzations by attacking thelr web servers,likely through $OL injection attacks,in order to drop malware onto them. ln 2017, the qroup added a new infection method to its tookit, using maiclousdocuments which are lkely circulated using spear-phishing emalls sent to individuals working in targeted organizations. These documents were Excel spreadsheets.When opened,they downloaded a maicious v8s file that in turn ran a Power$he script. Several hours later,a dropper would appear on the compromised computer. This would instal thre fles on the computer, an information stealer, a screen capture utilty, andan empty executable. The screen capture utilty appeared to be used for initialinformation gathering,as it was only used briey at the beginning of each infection and not eenagaln. The information stealer was capable of steallng the contents of the clipboard,taking screenshots,recording keystrokes and stealing files and usecredentials, After this initilal activity,the attackers usualy downloaded more of thelr tools to the computer using a PowerSshel downloader and beganmowing across the victim's network.Symantec has seen chafer use seven new tools in its more recent campaligns,in additlon to malware it is prevlously known to have used. Most of the new tools are freely avallable, off-the-shelf tools, put to a malicious use. The new tools include.Chafer has also continued to use tools prevlously assoclated with the group, including ts own custom backdoor Remexi (hackdoor.Remexihitps:/www.symantec.com/security response/writeup/sp?docid-2015-110911-3433-9));the aforementioned PsExec; Mimikatz (Hacktool.Mimikatz4:2012.04261 5-3781-9911.htps:/wyLsvmante,comsewnty [esponse/wnteup sp200..a free tool capable of changing priwileqes, exporting securitcertificates, and recovenino Windows passwords in plalntext, PwdumD (Pwdumo httos.//ww.symanteccom/security responselwteup sp2docid=2005-032616-0025-99)) a toal that is used to grab Windows password hashes from a remote Windows computer, and plink (PuTTY Link) acommand-ine utility used to create rewerse SSH sesglons Chafer has used these tools in concer to traverse targeted networks. The group has recently adopted NsSi to maintain persistence and install theservice which runs Plink on the compromised computer, Pinkis then used to open reverse SsH sesslons from the altackers server to the RbP port anthe victim computer. This presumably gives them RDP access to the compromised computer. Once a foothold is established, the attackers use PsExec, Remcom, and $i8 hacking tools to begin moving across the victim's network.Chafer has also begun using new infrastructure. The domain win7-updates[.]com is being used by the group as a command and control address. The domain has been referenced several times in command lines, e.g:Symantec also discovered multiple IP addresses that were used as infrastructure by the attackers. It is unclear whether these were leased or hijacked, but the fact that many of them appear to follow a pattern—with the latter three numbers of each address often running in sequence—makes it likely they were deliberately selected by the attackers.In one case, Symantec found what appeared to be a staging server used by the attackers. The server belonged to one of the targeted organizations. Copies of many of the tools used by the group were discovered on the server. The attackers didn’t even bother hiding their activity and saved items to the desktop, often without renaming them.Chafer's activities have some links to another group known as Crambus (aka 0ilrig). Both groups have been observed using the same lP address forcommand and control purposes.ln addition to this, both groups have been seen using a similar infection vector, namely an Excel document which dropsa malicious VBS file. Both VBS files reference the same fle path, containing the same misspelling. 'schtasks.exe /create/ F /sc minute /mo 2 /tn "UpdatMachine /tr %LOCALAPPDATA%microsoftFeedY658123.vbsAre the two groups one and the same? While this may be a possibilitly, at present there isn't enough evidence to support that hypothesis. What is more likely is that the two groups are known to each other and enjoy access to a shared pool of resources.Chafer's recent activities indicate that the group remains highly active,is continuing to hone its tols and tactics, and has become more audacious in itschoice of targets. Although a regional actor,the group has folowed two trends seen globally among targeted attack groups. The first is a greater relianceon freely available software tools, also known as "iving off the land." By limiting their use of malware, groups such as Chafer hope to be lessconspicuous on a victim's network and, if discovered, make their attack more difficult to attribute. The second trend is towards attacks on the supply chain, compromising organizations with the goal of then attacking the customers, or even thecustomers of the cutomers, of those organizations. These atacks require more "steps"to reach their ultimate target, which adds additional time andisk for attackers to reach their targets. However these attacks also leverage trusted channels into the eventual target,e., through a trusted supplierallowing attackers to potentialy circumvent security systems at the organization they ultimately wish to compromise. These attacks are riskier but comewith a potentially higher reward and, ifsuccessful, could give the attackers access to a vast pool of potential targets.