It's one of the biggest Hollywood stories of the year...
Selena Gomez goes barefoot on the red carpet at Hotel Transylvania 3: Summer Vacation!
She's one of the most famous women in the world, and she's also one of the most famous people in Los Angeles.
Kanye West may soon be opening his own restaurant.
Two years after Brad Pitt and Angelina Jolie announced they were splitting up, a judge has reportedly declared both Pitt and Jolie to be legally single.
Is the hospital where Middleton gives birth to her children tainted by illicit drug use?
A selection of photos from around the world this week:
It’s been a busy few days for Jennifer Aniston, who was spotted out and about in Los Angeles on Monday night.
If you’ve ever wondered what it’s like to be in a relationship with one of the world’s most famous men, you’ve come to the right place.
It's one of Hollywood's most famous couples, but could it be about to get back together?
How do I reset my Google or Facebook password?
Brad Pitt celebrated his 54th birthday on Monday, and a source tells PEOPLE the actor is doing well and taking better care of himself since his split from Angelina Jolie.
Blac Chyna and Jay-Z are expecting their first child together, according to a new report.
The actor says he would never do anything to harm his daughter.
Meghan Markle’s college days have been revealed.
Justin Bieber and Selena Gomez are taking some time apart, a source tells E! News that Justin and Selena are giving each other some space right now, but are still talking all the time.
Kim Kardashian West has taken on a new job as a manager.
Harry Potter stars Emma Watson and Robert Pattinson are dating, according to a new report.
Taylor Swift lent Ariana Grande a plane so that she could get home safely after the Manchester bombing.
Beyonce and Jay-Z have added 18 nannies and maids to their household since the birth of their twins, RadarOnline.com has learned.
All images are copyrighted.
Kate Hudson is an American actress, producer and entrepreneur who has a net Worth of $80 million.
Betsy Devos, the former head of the US Department of Education, has said that private schools "don't teach us as much as public schools."
"I don't know," Tyga says when asked about his age difference with Kylie Jenner.
Jennifer Lopez and Alex Rodriguez were photographed together for the first time on April 3, 2017.
Katie Holmes, Tom Cruise’s estranged wife, is dating Jamie Foxx, according to a source close to the actress.
Meghan Markle's childhood best friend has revealed the real reason her first marriage broke up - and it wasn't a mutual decision.
It's a call you don't want to forget.
It’s been a year and a half since Brad Pitt and Angelina Jolie announced their shock separation, but it seems he’s back on the dating scene.
RadarOnline.com has learned Jennifer Aniston’s relationship with ex Brad Pitt played a role in her split from Justin Theroux.
It's not every day you get to sit next to your father.
It's one of the most talked-about couples in country music right now.
The sketch below is a custom design of what we predict Meghan Markle’s wedding dress will look like.
FBI Special Agent Joaquin "Jack" Garcia has been described as "the best undercover agent the Bureau has ever had."
Two years after Brad Pitt and Angelina Jolie announced they were splitting up, a judge has reportedly declared both Pitt and Jolie to be legally single.
It’s official.
Kim Kardashian and Kanye West are not divorcing, according to a new report.
TheLeftovers star Justin Theroux and Friends star Jennifer Aniston have called off their marriage.
As the Duke and Duchess of Cambridge prepare for their first official visit to Australia and New Zealand, we take a look at some of the more unusual things they do.
As 2013 draws to a close, we take a look back at some of the most talked-about celebrity relationships of the year.
It’s not the first time he’s popped the question.
The Duchess of Cambridge and Meghan Markle are expecting twins, a Kensington Palace insider has told In Touch magazine.
The hardest part of breaking up is getting back your stuff.
Prince Harry and Meghan Markle announced their engagement on Monday.
Brad Pitt and Kate Hudson?
It’s all about the PDA.
In the new Netflix docuseries Victoria Beckham BREAKSENCE on David Beckham Cheating, the former Spice Girls star reflects on explosive 2004 cheating allegations that he adamantly denied but which still threatened to relegate his marriage to divorce court.
The Keeping Up With The Kardashians star explains why she thinks Scott is trying to make Kourtney Kardashian mad.
Selena Gomez's manager Scooter Mallette has defended the pop star over reports she's dating Justin Bieber.
"I don't know what it's like to live a normal life, where people just don't know who you are."
The Duke of Cambridge has revealed that he once bought his wife a pair of binoculars, but it didn't go well.
If you’re in the market for a new boyfriend, you might want to check out this couple.
It's official: They're no longer together.
Sir Elton John performed at London's O2 Arena on Thursday night as part of his "Wonderful Crazy Night" world tour.
All images are copyrighted.
Live with Kelly and Ryan co-hosts Ryan Seacrest and Kelly Ripa may look happy when the cameras are rolling on Live with Kelly and Ryan, but for one of them, the show is not that great. Ryan Seacrest and Kelly Ripa may look happy when the cameras are rolling on Live with Kelly and Ryan
The Keeping Up with the Kardashians star has been spotted out and about with the Philadelphia 76ers basketball player.
When Prince William's mother, Diana, Princess of Wales, gave birth to Prince George in 1981, it was widely seen as the beginning of a new era in royal parenting.
It sounds like Drake is still in love with Rihanna!
Ben Affleck is facing a brain damage crisis after getting into a horrifying motorcycle crash on a crowded L.A.
All content is copyrighted.
Justin Bieber and Hailey Baldwin are getting married on Saturday, but who will be in attendance?
The winners of the 59th Grammy Awards have been announced in Los Angeles, USA.
Check out the pics of Kim Kardashian showing off her hot bod while on holiday in the Caribbean!
Justin Bieber has got engaged.
Angelina Jolie and Brad Pitt’s divorce is still “stonewalled” and they’re still playing tug-of-war with their children, a source tells In Touch.
Check out our picks for the best fashion buys of the week.
How do I reset my Google or Facebook password?
How do I reset my Google or Facebook password?
Rihanna and her billionaire boyfriend Hassan Jameel have reportedly had a bust-up over her smoking weed.
Miranda Lambert and Gwen Stefani’s feud over Blake Shelton is reportedly over!
Ben Affleck is jealous of Jennifer Garner’s new relationship with Josh Duhamel, a source tells HollywoodLife.com.
In the summer issue of GQ Style, Brad Pitt and Angelina Jolie sit down for an exclusive interview at their Los Angeles home.
If there’s one thing we know for sure about Hollywood, it’s that it’s very cliquey.
Are we about to see the first Caitlyn Jenner in the Celebrity Big Brother house?
All images are copyrighted.
It’s that time of year again when celebrities share their holiday wishes with friends and family.
Is Jennifer Lawrence secretly dating Brad Pitt?
Prince Harry and Meghan Markle's wedding dress has been revealed.
Sarah Paulson is an American actress who has a net Worth of $12 million.
Twilight star Robert Pattinson explains why he chooses to stay quiet when it comes to his private life.
The Grey's Anatomy star opens up to People about his split from his wife of 15 years, Jillian Dempsey.
Stars like Tom Hanks, Charlize Theron, Jordan Peele, William Shatner, Rob Lowe, Kumail Nanjiani, and Jamie Lee Curtis paid tribute to the late actor, best known for his roles in films like Aliens, Twister, Apollo 13, True Lies, Titanic, and the Golden Globe-nominated
A selection of photos from around the world this week:
Did you feel like something was missing from the 2017 Golden Globes?
Channing Tatum and Jenna Dewan Tatum have announced that they are separating after nearly nine years of marriage.
What is AI and how is it being used to influence and disrupt the election?
Madonna's unapologetic mom-isms that prove just how tough and rewarding motherhood can be.
A selection of photos from around the world this week:
"When I was alone I became very isolated and felt very lonely and it was difficult to meet someone."
"We still have so much love for each other as a family."
BBC Sport takes a look at some of the key stories of the week.
Kim Kardashian West is fed up with her sister's "loud chaos"!
How much would you pay to watch an episode of "Game of Thrones" with Daenerys Targaryen?
Scarlett Johansson’s boyfriend Colin Jost has revealed that he has a girlfriend!
Harry Dean Stanton was best known for his roles in films like “Alien,” “Paris Texas,” and “Repo Man.”
It's not every day you hear a Hollywood actress admit she missed out on a part because she was "too beautiful".
It's one of the biggest paternity battles we've seen in a long time.
Nicole Kidman and Keith Urban are on the verge of divorce, according to US magazine In Touch.
As Khloé Kardashian reels from news of Tristan Thompson’s cheating scandal, In Touch has uncovered exclusive new details about another betrayal.
Angelina Jolie has filed for divorce from Brad Pitt, citing "irreconcilable differences" as the reason for the split.
Rihanna’s new boyfriend is reportedly worried that the singer might win her back from ex Chris Brown.
Jennifer Aniston and Justin Theroux have split after two and a half years of marriage, the Associated Press reports.
Kate Hudson cut off seven inches of her hair for the 2016 Golden Globes.
Beyonce wants a million dollar nursery for her twins, according to a report from Radar Online.
The Hollywood legend was presented with the Icon Tribute during the kickoff to the 35th annual PaleyFest LA at the Dolby Theater.
A selection of photos from around the world this week:
It’s not looking good for Khloé and Tristan!
The wedding of Prince Harry and Meghan Markle has been the talk of the late-night world.
Angelina Jolie and Brad Pitt have been married for 11 years and have six children.
Chris Brown has proposed reuniting with ex-girlfriend Rihanna on a world tour.
How do I reset my Google or Facebook password?
In this week’s Rewind, we take a look back at some of the most memorable moments from this year’s FA Cup Final.
It’s no secret that Ed Sheeran had a hand in writing Justin Bieber‘s megahit “Love Yourself,” but the British singer-songwriter recently revealed that the Biebs actually wasn’t the original artist in mind when he penned it.
Gigi Hadid will not be walking in the Victoria’s Secret Fashion Show this week in Shanghai.
It was supposed to be one of the most touching and beautiful days of her life.
Amal Clooney at the 2018 Met Gala on May 7, wowing everyone. Amal Clooney (with husband George) in her second Met Gala dress, a red Tom Ford creation that evoked stained glass.
Dwayne Johnson is asking for a $1 million social-media fee as part of his package for the upcoming Red Notice.
A selection of photos from around the world this week:
Kim Kardashian has revealed that she, Kourtney and Kris Jenner all had 'tough conversations' about Khloé Kardashian's cheating scandal earlier this year.
Justin Timberlake and Jessica Biel are expecting their second child together.
In case you missed it, here’s your chance to meet Desiree O.
Brad Pitt and Jennifer Aniston's romance ended in divorce in 2005.
It looks like Kendall Jenner and Anwar Hadid are back together.
Victoria Beckham and James Corden sing "Spice Up Your Life" in a spoof of the 1987 film "Mannequin."
Twilight fans rejoiced when Robert Pattinson and Kristen Stewart were spotted together at Johnny Depp’s birthday party.
It’s been a long time coming.
It's official: Khloé Kardashian and Tristan Thompson have a baby girl.
Kanye West’s mental health issues are more serious than anyone knows, insiders say, and they’ve led to the disintegration of his marriage after nearly four years.
The pastor of New York City Church has denied that Justin Bieber has donated $10 million to the church.
"I was not trying to make light of Harvey's inexcusable behavior, but to shame him, the abuser, not his victims."
How do I reset my Google or Facebook password?
Celebrities and musicians have been reacting to President Donald Trump’s latest attack on the media.
Kelly Clarkson and Jennifer Hudson are returning to The Voice.
Artists from around the world have taken to social media to express their condolences to the people of Mexico following Tuesday’s earthquake.
It's not every day you're linked to one of the world's most famous men.
A selection of photos from around the world this week:
Nina Dobrev and Nikki Reed have always gotten along.
All pictures copyrighted.
It's not every day you get to post a photo of yourself in a bikini...
Check out the pics of Kristen Stewart and Stella Maxwell out and about in Los Angeles this week!
Kim Kardashian’s boyfriend Kanye West is reportedly ignoring his duties as a new dad in the weeks since the couple’s daughter, Chicago West, was born.
How do I reset my Google or Facebook password?
Brad Pitt is furious with his estranged wife Angelina Jolie for speaking publicly about their split, sources tell Life & Style.
Kim Kardashian West, Kanye West, Wiz Khalifa, Amber Rose, Blac Chyna, Rob Kardashian, Tyga and more!
The actress drove her estranged husband to rehab last week and was photographed arriving at Affleck's house looking visibly upset outside of his Pacific Palisades, California, home. Garner drove her estranged husband to rehab last week and was photographed arriving at Affleck's house looking visibly upset outside of his Pacific Palisades, California, home
Rob Kardashian is suing his ex Blac Chyna (Picture: WireImage) Rob Kardashian has accused ex Blac Chyna of physical assault and of having their daughter to extort money from the Kardashians.
It's been a year and a half since Angelina Jolie and Brad Pitt announced that they were divorcing, and now it looks like she's finally moved on with her life.
Is Ben Affleck’s ex Jennifer Garner seeing a lawyer?
Germaine Greer’s interview with the Daily Telegraph in which she called Prince Harry’s girlfriend Meghan Markle ‘a bit of a slob’ has been widely reported.
Justin Bieber called a pap "too normal" when he was asked about Hailey Baldwin's pregnancy.
Rosie Huntington-Whiteley is pregnant with her first child.
Angelina Jolie says she has nothing to do with Jennifer Aniston’s split from Justin Theroux.
It was a last-ditch effort to save their marriage.
Kris Jenner says she trusts Khloe Kardashian with regard to her relationship with Tristan Thompson amid his cheating scandal, as her daughter continues to publicly support her man. Kris Jenner says she trusts Khloe Kardashian with regard to her relationship with Tristan Thompson amid his cheating scandal, as her daughter continues to publicly support her man.
Ryan Phillippe will not face criminal charges in the domestic violence case that resulted in a lawsuit being filed by a former girlfriend.
Katie Holmes and Jamie Foxx have been linked to each other for years but a new report claims the actress is worried about the actor’s love life.
Kanye West’s personal trainer, Harley Pasternak, is said to be getting paid to do nothing other than watch Kanye West stand and refuse to take part in the exercises.
Brad Pitt and Jennifer Aniston may actually have cause for hope!
It's a girl!
Olivia Wilde and Jason Sudeikis are engaged to be married, according to the New York Post.
Jennifer Aniston is reportedly back on the dating scene with two different beaus, per Us Weekly, and her friends are having trouble not talking about it.
As Prince Harry and Meghan Markle tie the knot, we take a look back at some of the most memorable moments from the royal wedding.
It's not easy being young and in love.
It’s been a tough few months for the new Duchess of Sussex.
How do I reset my Google or Facebook password?
In our series of letters from African-American journalists, novelist, and writer Ta-Nehisi Coates looks at some of the best examples of why you should never, ever, ever, ever, ever, ever, ever, ever, ever, ever, ever, ever, ever, ever, ever, ever
This site uses cookies.
Lindsay Lohan is pregnant!
HollywoodLife has learned that Johnny Depp’s desire to live the life of a rockstar may have contributed to his recent skinny, gaunt look.
Kanye West’s full audition for American Idol has been revealed.
If you’ve been living under a rock for the last few weeks, you’ll know that Taylor Swift and Kim Kardashian have been locked in a war of words over Taylor’s new single.
Caitlyn Jenner’s rep has denied a report that the former Olympian is expecting her first child with girlfriend Sophia Hutchins.
If you're set to marry royalty, like Meghan Markle you would expect to move into a palace, and live out your Disney Princess fantasy! If you're set to marry royalty, like Meghan Markle you would expect to move into a palace, and live out your Disney Princess fantasy!
Pop star Katy Perry and actor Orlando Bloom are reportedly getting married, according to a new report.
It's a girl!
It's hard to believe it's just one year since they were born.
The Keeping Up with the Kardashians star is said to have a "solid relationship" with her husband, despite his recent public comments.
How do I reset my Google or Facebook password?
Life & Style reports that Brad Pitt has had a facelift in response to the stress caused by his divorce from Angelina Jolie.
We Should Listen to Palestinians, Not Selena Gomez (Or Other Cele...
All images are copyrighted.
Justin Bieber and Selena Gomez appear to have rekindled their relationship, sending fans of the pop couple into a frenzy.
Keith Urban and Nicole Kidman were at loggerheads at an Emmy’s after party after he accused her of disrespecting and humiliating him by kissing Alexander Skarsgard.
Robert Pattinson is reportedly seeing Kylie Minogue following his split from FKA Twigs.
After two years of dating and welcoming their first child together, Kylie Jenner and Travis Scott split in October 2019.
White House press secretary Sean Spicer spoke with Fox News’ Sean Hannity to discuss his decision to resign Friday and his thoughts on Saturday Night Live‘s lauded parodies of President Donald Trump’s administration.
A neurosurgeon (Idris Elba) has a vivid dream about a fellow crash victim (Kate Winslet) in an exclusive deleted scene from the romantic survival drama 'The Mountain Between Us.'
Justin Bieber and Selena Gomez are no longer in touch, according to a new report.
It’s been a while since we heard from Selena Gomez’s mother.
All images are copyrighted.
Matt Lauer's former co-anchor Katie Couric has spoken out about the sexual misconduct scandal that led to Lauer's dismissal from NBC's Today show.
A selection of photos from around the world this week:
Jamie Foxx and Katie Holmes’s secret relationship has been the subject of endless tabloid speculation since 2013.
Halle Berry and Alex Da Kid have split up, according to reports.
A selection of photos from around the world this week:
Kourtney Kardashian and Scott Disick have called off their engagement after just six months together.
It appears Brad Pitt has officially moved on from Angelina Jolie, doing some "serious flirting" with Sienna Miller during a... It appears Brad Pitt has officially moved on from Angelina Jolie, doing some "serious flirting" with Sienna Miller during a congratulatory dinner for their new film, The Lost City of Z.
Jennifer Aniston and Brad Pitt are expecting their first child together, according to a new report.
A Connecticut man who pretended to be pop stars like Justin Bieber and Harry Styles to entice young girls into performing sexual acts during online video chats has been sentenced to 17 years in prison.
All images are copyrighted.
Can you believe it?
It’s not every day you get to share the stage with your girlfriend.
Mariah Carey’s rep has denied that the singer has installed special mirrors in her home to make her look thinner than she really is.
Friends co-stars Jennifer Aniston and Courteney Cox are not jealous of each other, despite a National Enquirer report to the contrary.
The Keeping Up With The Kardashians clan headed to Cannes, France, this week.
The first photos from Kim Kardashian and Kanye West's wedding have been released.
It’s that time of year again when we’re all trying to look and feel our best.
Jennifer Aniston and Justin Theroux's marriage was a total disaster, according to a new report.
Meghan Markle’s status as a divorcée has never been in dispute, but according to a new “bombshell” Enquirer cover story (is there any other kind?), Prince Harry will be the ex-actress’s third kick at the matrimonial can.
It’s been almost two years since Britney Spears released her last studio album.
Brad Pitt has spoken out for the first time since his split from Angelina Jolie.
Angelina Jolie demanding Brad Pitt dump Jennifer Aniston in order to continue seeing his six children is nothing but a bogus claim by a news outlet.
The Kardashians have reportedly won their trademark battle with Blac Chyna.
It's one of the most talked-about TV shows of the year, but a new report claims that the two actresses may never work together again.
"Stormi" sounds like the name of a porn star who publicly slept with Donald Trump.
It seems George Clooney isn’t the only one to blame for Brad Pitt and Jennifer Aniston’s split.
All images are copyrighted.
Jessica Simpson Is Jealous Of Mandy Moore's 'This Is Us' Success
Justin Bieber is blaming Taylor Swift for the breakdown of his relationship with Selena Gomez, according to an insider.
Paris Jackson’s rep has told Gossip Cop that the National Enquirer’s claims that the 19-year-old has relapsed into drug abuse are false.
Jennifer Aniston and Chelsea Handler are no longer friends (Picture: Rex/ Metro.co.uk) Jennifer Aniston and Chelsea Handler are thought to no longer be BFFs following a fall out in 2015 but Chelsea is reportedly keen to patch up their friendship.
If she had to choose between giving birth to more children or having twins, what would she choose?
The battle between the contestants on the current season of The Voice is nothing compared to the explosive war between longtime country coach Blake Shelton and newbie judge Kelly Clarkson!
The "Keeping Up with the Kardashians" star says the reports of an assault are "totally not true".
There's no truth to a report that Justin Theroux is "flirty" with Selena Gomez.
A selection of photos from around the world this week:
Blake Shelton and Adam Levine's bromance on The Voice has "cooled off", a source tells Life & Style.
Kate and Pippa Middleton have been shopping online for baby clothes and accessories!
All images are copyrighted.
It’s the story of a troubled marriage, a near-fatal drug overdose and a career in the NBA.
Pop stars Selena Gomez and Yolanda Hadid share their secrets about being married.
We Should Listen to Palestinians, Not Selena Gomez (Or Other Cele...
Kim Kardashian has revealed that she wants her sister, Khloe Kardashian, to be her surrogate when she gives birth to her third child.
How do I reset my Google or Facebook password?
The Duchess of Cambridge’s sister-in-law isn’t snubbing her, according to royal expert Katie Nicholl.
The Kardashian-Jenner clan may be one of the most famous families in the world, but there's one thing they don't have in common.
All images subject to copyright.
Emma Stone and Justin Theroux were spotted enjoying each other's company while relaxing on the patio of a house in the small village of Saint-Paul-de-Vence, France.
A selection of photos from around the world this week:
Lindsay Lohan is pregnant!
From overcoming hard times together to collaborating on romantic duets, they constantly prove that they are the ultimate #CoupleGoals.
The father of the former Meghan Markle says he talked politics with Prince Harry over the phone - and Harry said he should give President Donald Trump a chance.
It’s not every day that you can say you’re dating the most beautiful woman in the world.
In case you missed it, here's a round-up of some of the most interesting celebrity news stories from the past week.
Mila Kunis and Ashton Kutcher are celebrating their fifth wedding anniversary.
Jennifer Garner and Ben Affleck are not expecting twins in the middle of their divorce, despite a report.
Caitlyn Jenner, who announced her transition from man to woman last year, has considered de-transitioning, the author of a new book about the Kardashian family told TheWrap on Wednesday.
All photographs  Justin Bieber.
We've got some bad news for Star magazine.
A US senator has been accused of sexual assault.
Brad Pitt and Jennifer Aniston are set to tie the knot in a small ceremony in Brad’s home town of St Louis, Missouri, New Idea has learned.
Kevin Bacon has never spoken a word about Donald Trump, according to a fake news story.
Laverne Cox is the first transgender actor to be nominated for an Emmy.
It's that time of year again!
Michael Jackson’s 19-year-old daughter, Paris, is said to be on the verge of taking her own life!
Brad Pitt and Jennifer Aniston are reportedly getting back together thanks to George Clooney.
A selection of photos from around the world this week:
Brad Pitt has won the custody battle with Angelina Jolie, Life & Style has learned.
A look back at some of the top celebrity snaps from the Memorial Day weekend.
A selection of photos from around the world this week:
Sienna Miller talks "Marathon" love scenes with Ben Affleck and explains why they did one sex scene 3 times in a row!
Prince Harry and Meghan Markle have been dating since 2016, and most of the relationship was formed over a long distance. So now that they've made things official and are about to get married, it's fair to wonder if Prince Harry and Meghan Markle are living together now or if royal protocol has kept them under
Kourtney Kardashian is reportedly expecting her fourth child with ex-boyfriend Younes Bendjima, according to a new report.
Jennifer Aniston has been keeping quiet about reports she’s pregnant with her first child.
It's been over two years since Gwen Stefani and Blake Shelton first got together, and a source close to the 41-year-old country singer tells ET that they're happier than ever!
Andy Samberg is the new King of Pop in the first red band trailer for “Popstar: Never Stop Never Stopping.”
The Duggar sisters are suing the magazine that first reported that their brother had molested them.
Hoda Kotb and her family have been sharing their New Year's Eve celebrations on social media.
Ever since Sofia Richie made her debut on Justin Bieber's Instagram, the 17-year-old blond beauty has... Ever since Sofia Richie made her debut on Justin Bieber's Instagram, the 17-year-old blond beauty has garnered a ton of attention.
Kim Kardashian West and Kanye West are expecting their third child.
Steven Spielberg, Meryl Streep, Amy Pascal and Kristie Macosko Krieger discuss their new film, The Post, which tells the true story of a newspaper publisher who risked her life to report the Pentagon Papers.
If you’ve ever wanted to know what it was like to be a police officer in Los Angeles in the 1970s, you’ve come to the right place.
Kim Kardashian West is "more humiliated than ever" by her husband Kanye West's recent rants, says a Kardashian source.
If you've ever wondered what it's like to be the only famous person in your family, you're in the right place. Decades later, the second generation of Coppola cousins has gotten mixed up in the family business: Frances's daughter Sofia and Talia's son Jason have each followed in
Valentine’s Day is just around the corner.
Katie Holmes goes for dinner with a mystery man Swit-swoo!
It all started when the rapper ambushed Swift's acceptance speech for Video of the Year at the 2009 MTV VMAs.
Bruno Mars led the 60th Grammy Awards with wins for record, album and song as his “24K Magic” helped him pull ahead of Kendrick Lamar late in the show.
Happy birthday Miley!
Russell Crowe and Danielle Spencer are officially divorced.
Selena Gomez and Justin Bieber have called time on their relationship.
Blake Shelton and Gwen Stefani are no longer together.
Justin Theroux and Emma Stone? Justin assured Jen that he and Emma were just friends, but she no longer believes him: The source insists that “it was clear Justin wasn’t happy in the marriage, he likes the New York hipster scene, while she loves her California sunshine.
Pop star Mariah Carey has given birth to twins, Moroccan and Monroe.
It’s one of the most anticipated stories of the year.
It all started with a question at a press conference in South Korea earlier this year.
After six years together, Katie Holmes and Jamie Foxx have called it quits.
Olivia Munn shuts down reports that she's dating Jennifer Aniston's ex-husband Justin Theroux.
Ever since Jennifer Aniston announced her divorce from Justin Theroux, there’s been a lot of speculation that she and Brad Pitt might reconcile.
Jennifer Lopez's marriage to Alex Rodriguez is reportedly on hold.
Jamie Lee Curtis is an American actress, producer, and author who has a net worth of $60 million.
Jennifer Lopez’s boyfriend Alex Rodriguez has been cheating on her for months, a source tells In Touch.
Caitlyn Jenner has opened up about why she kept her ex-wife and stepchildren out of the loop when it came time for her gender reassignment surgery. Caitlyn sat down with Piers Morgan this week on Life Stories where she very candidly discussed why she kept her ex-wife and stepchildren
Rob Pattinson tells Howard Stern he was expelled from school for stealing porno magazines.
It’s not looking good for your marriage!
Blake Shelton and Gwen Stefani are not engaged, according to Gossip Cop.
Ben Affleck and Lindsay Shookus may have started dating shortly after it was confirmed Ben and Jennifer Garner were over, but it seems Matt Damon isn't a fan!
A selection of photos from around the world this week:
It’s not every day you get to work with a celebrity nutritionist and personal trainer.
Celine Dion has been accused of being a diva on The Voice.
In our exclusive interview with Lamar Odom, the former NBA star and ex-husband of Khloé Kardashian, 37, tells Us he’s "winning" his battle against addiction.
As Prince Harry and Duchess Meghan prepare for their first overseas tour as a married couple, they are already laying the groundwork for another trip in the spring of 2019 to her native country.
Selena Gomez and The Weeknd’s romance may be off to a rocky start, according to a new report.
Kaia Gerber is the new Kendall Jenner.
Kourtney Kardashian’s ex-boyfriend, Scott Disick, could be cashing in on his split from the Keeping Up With the Kardashians star.
What do Christina Aguilera, Adam Levine, CeeLo Green and Gwen Stefani have in common?
We Should Listen to Palestinians, Not Selena Gomez (Or Other Cele...
Pop star Pink has triggered a "code red" over her husband Carey Hart's heavy boozing.
Pop superstar Miley Cyrus has invited her father, country artist Billy Ray Cyrus, to be her team advisor for the upcoming Season 13.
As Jennifer Aniston and Justin Theroux continue toicker over where to live and whether to start a family, Life & Style has learned more about the actress’s troubled marriage.
It's not every day that you're accused of starving yourself for your wedding.
All pictures are copyrighted.
Bob Marley: One Love is in cinemas now.
It’s all about the baby!
From PEN: 23 Oscar Nominees Reveal The Untold Stories Behind Their Films
Goldie Hawn and Kurt Russell are known as the happiest unmarried couple in Hollywood.
One of Princess Diana's most iconic outfits is going up for auction.
Brad Pitt and Sienna Miller were spotted flirting at the premiere of The Lost City of Z.
Kate Hudson is an American actress, producer and entrepreneur who has a net Worth of $80 million.
Brad Pitt was born on 18 December 1963, in Shawnee, Oklahoma.
Katie Holmes and Jamie Foxx at Clive Davis' Pre-Grammy Awards Gala in January.
It's been 10 years since Jamie Lynn Spears gave birth to her first child.
A group of people are planning to protest against the Queen when she visits Liverpool later this month.
Who will win this year’s Daytime Emmys?
Find out more about TrendolizerTM at get.trendolizer.com
Kanye West is being used by a rapper trying to get his come-up by bashing Donald Trump and forging Kanye’s involvement in his music.
Pop star Pink has been urged by her husband to cut back on her hectic touring schedule, according to New Idea.
The real Billie Jean King chats it up with Steve Carell and Emma Stone at the premiere of Battle of the Sexes.
.
Charlize Theron, David Oyelowo, Jennifer Lawrence, Mark Wahlberg, Salma Hayek, Margot Robbie, Joel Edgerton, Gerard Butler and Margot Robbie are on the BBC's Radio 4 breakfast show to teach listeners about alcohol slang.
Blake Shelton was named People's "Sexiest Man Alive" of 2017 and some people are not happy.
She’s rich and glamorous and famous, but she’s also one of us: a real person with a beating heart.
Brad Pitt and Angelina Jolie’s custody battle has taken a nasty turn, with the actress accusing her ex of not paying child support.
Zac Efron's girlfriend Alexandra Daddario says they're "very good friends."
David and Victoria Beckham have reportedly bought their seven-year-old daughter a £7,000 pedigree pony to celebrate her birthday.
Ellen DeGeneres and Portia de Rossi are celebrating their ninth wedding anniversary!
If you’re looking for a new place to live with your six children, then you’ve come to the right place.
It seems like Angelina Jolie always had a “crush” on Jared Leto, but Brad Pitt didn’t like it!
Harry Styles’ girlfriend Tess Ward has called off her relationship with the One Direction star, according to a report from The Sun.
It's a baby boom for the Kardashian-Jenner family, as the reality star recently revealed she and Kanye West are expecting their third child—reportedly via surrogate, multiple sources recently told E!
Maddox Jolie-Pitt, Brad Pitt and Angelina Jolie’s six-year-old son has moved out of his mother’s Los Angeles home.
If you’ve been living under a rock for the past few years, you’ll know that we’re big fans of Jennifer Lawrence.
It’s not every day you get to ask your boyfriend to unblock you on Instagram.
Kristen Stewart has been offered the role of Angelina Jolie's replacement in Wanted, a source close to the project tells E!
Selena Gomez and Justin Bieber were seen leaving church together in Los Angeles on Wednesday night, albeit in separate vehicles.
It’s not every day that you get to invite the Duke and Duchess of Cambridge to your Christmas party.
Maria Menounos says having a brain tumor removed has taught her to slow things down in her life.
Check out Lil Dicky’s track about switching bodies with Chris Brown below.
Prince William and Kate Middleton are expecting their fourth child, a source has told a US magazine.
She's one of the world's most famous supermodels.
"Jurassic World" star Chris Pratt and his wife, actress Anna Faris, have been named married couple of the year at the People's Choice Awards.
Kourtney & Kim: Kim Allergic to Cats?
Caitlyn Jenner says she did not tell the Kardashians about her gender reassignment surgery.
Ever since 2013 Kanye West has walked the star-studded Met Gala red carpet with wife Kim Kardashian.
They're one of country music's most well-known couples, but internet trolls are having a field day with an Instagram photo of Faith Hill and Tim McGraw.
We'd like to welcome your comments on this story.
A royal insider has told Gossip Cop that a tabloid’s story about Princess Charlotte reciting her great ancestor Queen Victoria’s quote is completely untrue.
Sandra Bullock told USA Today that she considered quitting acting and leaving Hollywood altogether after facing sexist behavior.
How to do it:
The world's most famous reality TV star may have been the victim of a terror plot!
How do I reset my Google or Facebook password?
Brad Pitt and Jennifer Aniston may actually have cause for hope!
Kim Kardashian West has filed for divorce from Kanye West, according to In Touch In Touch magazine.
Sean Astin, who played Bob Newby in Stranger Things, has died at the age of 40.
Did Demi Lovato’s overdose make Wilmer Valderrama want to marry her?
"I'm getting more and more anxious and excited with everyday."
Jennifer Hudson's coach on The Voice, Kelly Clarkson, is jealous of her antics on American Idol, a source has told RadarOnline.com.
Ryan Seacrest and Shayna Taylor may be on the brink of a split, according to a new report.
Kourtney Kardashian was spotted holding a phone up to the face of her Facetiming buddy as she walked along a busy street (Picture: Backgrid)
Nick Cannon And Mariah Carey Bicker Back-And-Forth At Kids’ Choice Awards
Ben Affleck and Lindsay Shookus are expecting their first child together, according to a source.
In case you missed it, here’s your chance to catch up on the latest episode of Keeping Up with the Kardashians.
It's official: Ben Affleck and Lindsay Shookus are no longer together.
Brad Pitt and Jennifer Aniston are reportedly taking a second chance at love.
Are you ready for a new celebrity romance?
The Big Bang Theory's Kaley Cuoco has found love in the horse world.
Brad Pitt will be getting visitation time with his children this summer as a judge has ordered Angelina Jolie to repair his relationship with their six kids.
A selection of photos from around the world this week:
Is Robert Pattinson cheating on FKA Twigs by hooking up with Katy Perry?
It's almost time for another royal milestone.
What Gwen doesn’t know: Blake Shelton is hiding shameful family secrets from Gwen Stefani! What Gwen doesn’t know: Blake Shelton is hiding shameful family secrets from Gwen Stefani!
Is Ben Affleck cheating on his wife, Jennifer Garner, with a blonde?
Can you believe it?
Is Justin Bieber about to propose to Selena Gomez?
It’s been a year and a half since they started seeing each other, but it looks like Stranger Things’ costars have called it quits!
Brad Pitt is reportedly planning a royal baby.
Angelina Jolie and Brad Pitt relationship problems have reportedly existed for months, with signs ranging from her rapid weight loss to a fragile 79 pounds to increasing rumors of his flirtations with co-stars on his movie sets. Angelina Jolie and Brad Pitt relationship problems have reportedly existed for months, with signs ranging from her rapid weight
This Is Us fans, you're in for a treat this Thanksgiving.
It's not what you might think.
Kendall Jenner is letting her friends know, ban Taylor Swift’s music or there will be bad blood!
Hollywood actor Tom Cruise is reportedly planning to marry his Mission: Impossible 6 co-star Vanessa Kirby.
He’s one of the biggest stars in the world right now, but could Liam Payne follow in his footsteps and become an actor?
Jennifer Aniston and Justin Theroux are not writing a book about their time together.
It’s official: the Duke and Duchess of Cambridge are expecting twins.
If you've ever wondered what it's like to be in the grip of a midlife crisis, here are the seven signs that suggest David Beckham is in the grip of a midlife crisis.
How do I reset my Google or Facebook password?
Kate Hudson and Danny Fujikawa are doing just fine as they await the arrival of their baby girl, despite a report.
It’s almost wedding day for one of Hollywood’s most famous couples.
Pop star Madonna is reported to be considering moving to Rome.
How do I reset my Google or Facebook password?
Sources close to the Church of Scientology have told Fox News the church systematically covers up the misdeeds of its most prominent members.
Rachel Weisz is one of the most celebrated actresses of the modern era, having won an Academy Award, a Golden Globe Award, a Laurence Olivier Award, and a British Academy Film Award.
Caitlyn Jenner's latest attempt to woo back the Kardashians has backfired.
It's official: Rihanna and Hassan Jameel are no longer together.
Taylor Swift has never said anything bad about Selena Gomez getting back together with Justin Bieber, despite HollywoodLife’s claims to the contrary.
It's official.
Sex and the City star Sarah Jessica Parker is pregnant with her second child, according to a source.
It's that time of year again: Breastfeeding season is upon us.
Is this the love of her life?
Do you think Ashley Tisdale is pregnant?
Angelina Jolie is said to be in love with a Cambodian rapper.
The fashion designer Georgina Chapman, whose husband, the film producer Harvey Weinstein, has been accused by dozens of women of harassment, abuse, and rape, reflects on her life since the scandal broke last year.
Julia Roberts has never been much for social media.
A source has told Life & Style that Kody Brown’s Sister Wives may be coming to an end.
All images subject to copyright.
Kim Kardashian and Kylie Jenner: sisters, friends, reality show co-stars...
All images are copyrighted.
How often have you wanted a relationship to be something that it wasn’t? It is not easy to grasp the idea that someone who once loved me, adored me, gave life to me could turn his back and walk away so easily.
Comedian Kathy Griffin has apologised for a photo shoot in which she appeared holding a fake decapitated head.
A selection of photos from around the world this week:
Allman Brothers co-founder Gregg Allman died at his home in Savannah, Georgia on Saturday, at the age of 69.
Rande Gerber is an American entrepreneur and former model who has a net worth of $400 million.
Brad Pitt and Angelina Jolie’s divorce was not caused by her cancer scare, according to Gossip Cop.
NBC says it has a long and proven history as an industry leader in diversity.
It's been a year and a half since two of the most talked-about royals in the world became sisters-in-law.
Prince Harry has undergone cryotherapy in the weeks leading up to the Royal Wedding.
Ryan Phillippe is suing his former girlfriend Elsie Hewitt after she alleged that the actor had brutally beaten her this summer.
Ashlee Simpson and Evan Ross are engaged to be married.
On Wednesday’s Real Housewives of New Jersey, Teresa Giudice reacted angrily to claims that she was cheating on her husband Joe.
It's one of the most talked-about couples in country music right now.
Did Charlie Hunnam really get booed at the airport by other travelers when using his celebrity status to cut the long immigration line? Did Charlie Hunnam really get booed at the airport by other travelers when using his celebrity status to cut the long immigration line?
It’s one of the biggest sporting stories of the year.
All images are copyrighted.
Celebrities have been reacting to the news that President Donald Trump's son released emails about a meeting with a Russian lawyer.
It’s all good.
Amal Clooney is the wife of actor George Clooney.
It looks like Selena Gomez won't be a part of the new Sabrina reboot. Netflix is set to bring Archie Horror's Chilling Adventures of Sabrina to the small screen, but it [...] Netflix is set to bring Archie Horror's Chilling Adventures of Sabrina to the small screen, but it looks like
Pink and Carey Hart have been married for 10 years.
As new parents Khloé Kardashian and Tristan Thompson don’t have a lot of time to themselves, so grabbing a bite to eat can’t always be a sit-down affair.
How do I reset my Google or Facebook password?
When Rita Ora was asked to sing on the Fifty Shades of Grey soundtrack, producers thought Justin Bieber would be the perfect choice.
A selection of photos from around the world this week:
Pop star Justin Bieber has taken to social media to blast a gossip blog for a false story it published about him and former girlfriend Selena Gomez.
Matt Damon and Ben Affleck are no longer friends, according to a new report.
The 60th Grammy Awards will be broadcast live from Madison Square Garden on CBS.
Billie Lourd has denied reports that she is in talks to play Goldie Hawn in a movie about the actress’ time on “Laugh-In.”
Reality TV star Scott Disick has shared a photo of his new boat, which he describes as "way 2 long".
BBC Sport takes a look at some of the key statistics behind the Premier League title race.
All images are copyrighted.
It’s that time of year again.
Kit Harington and Rose Leslie are engaged.
Brad Pitt has spoken out for the first time since his split from Angelina Jolie.
Ed Sheeran says the feud between Taylor Swift and Katy Perry is overblown.
Brad Pitt and Jennifer Aniston are set to tie the knot in a small ceremony in Brad’s home town of St Louis, Missouri, New Idea has learned.
The winners of the 25th annual E Awards were chosen entirely through online voting.
It's that time of year again.
Katie Holmes and Jamie Foxx have been dating for five years now, but they’ve never publicly confirmed their relationship.
It's one of Hollywood's biggest divorces!
Emily Nelson is back.
Eva Longoria Says She and son Santiago, 312, Are 'Ready' for Summer: 'Where Are You?'
She’s one of the world’s most famous actresses, and now she’s taking the fashion world by storm.
Matt Lauer's former co-anchor Katie Couric has spoken out about the sexual misconduct scandal that led to Lauer's dismissal from NBC's Today show.
Before: Meghan Markle's instagram used to be a lot more fun Before Harry: Meghan Markle's instagram used to be a lot more fun
Nick Jonas and Sara Sampaio were spotted locking lips at a bowling alley in Los Angeles on January 31, and it looks like they’re taking their relationship to the next level!
Kim Kardashian West lost a diamond earring while on holiday in Bora Bora.
Lena Dunham and a new man.
Apple is making more changes to its first original scripted series.
Nicole Kidman and Keith Urban are expecting their second child together.
One member of the Kardashian-Jenner family is quietly slaying the fashion industry. Kendall Jenner, the daughter of Kris Kardashian and Caitlyn Jenner, made her first major runway appearance for Marc Jacobs in 2014.
Kate Middleton is said to be “less than pleased” that her husband has been filmed partying with friends during a boys-only skiing trip.
How do I reset my Google or Facebook password?
Blake Shelton and Gwen Stefani at the Academy of Country Music Awards on April 15.
Valentine’s Day is just around the corner.
Caitlyn Jenner Didn’t Attend Brody Jenner’s Wedding!
It looks like Brad Pitt has found the woman of his dreams.
The Duchess of Cambridge is reportedly not on Princess Eugenie’s guest list for her wedding.
The British fashion house Self Portrait will be in New York for the first time.
She was suspended for 10 days last year over comments she made on a podcast about the network's CO vaccine policy and former President Barack Obama's racial identity.
Celebrities are sending their love and support to New York on social media following a terror attack that...
This site uses cookies.
If you’ve ever wondered what it’s like to be a pop star’s mother, you’ve come to the right place.
Country music star Drew Scott is engaged to his long-term girlfriend, Linda Phan.
Is Khloe Kardashian trying to upstage new princess Meghan Markle?
Gwyneth Paltrow says she wasn't surprised to see her ex-boyfriend Ben Affleck's planned wedding to Jennifer Lopez be put on hold last month.
After the “New Celebrity Apprentice” host said in an interview published Friday that he would “decline” to do the show again if asked, and blamed Trump for the show’s poor ratings, the president retaliated Saturday morning by saying Schwarzenegger “was fired.”
There's a saying in the game of rugby that if you're not good enough, you're not good enough.
Madonna’s adoption of twins from Malawi has been approved, right?
Pop stars Pink and Lady Gaga are reportedly working together to write an anti-Madonna anthem!
The divorce between Ben Affleck and Jennifer Garner is "very much on", sources close to the couple tell us.
We’ve all heard the one about the girl who can’t stop smiling.
It’s not every day that you hear about a former Melrose Place star joining the cast of a reality TV show.
Blake Shelton says he'll be celebrating his birthday on Friday with his wife, Gwen Stefani, and their three children.
The Sun is the latest tabloid to run an exclusive on Brad Pitt and Neri Oxman.
She’s one of the world’s most famous models, and she’s fighting back against body-shaming on social media.
It wasn’t meant to be.
Is Ryan Seacrest Going to Leave Live With Kelly and Ryan Now?
There’s no truth in the report.
Comedian Kevin Hart and his wife have welcomed their first child together.
It’s been a roller-coaster ride of emotions for the youngest member of the Kardashian-Jenner clan.
Mel B is being investigated by the Los Angeles Police Department for allegedly threatening a witness in her restraining order case against ex-husband Stephen Belafonte and their former nanny, Lorraine Gilles.
Pop star Jessica Simpson doesn't spend $100,000 per month on food delivery service Postmates, despite a bogus report. Jessica Simpson doesn't not not spend $100,000 per month on the food delivery service Postmates, despite an absurd report.
It’s been a rough week for one of the world’s most famous athletes.
Whos have been raised on celebrity culture, and they reflect values back at us in their deep desire for fame and their performance of it.
From being told to lose weight to being called "fat" by a casting agent, here's a look at some of the stars who've spoken out about body image issues.
Sarah Jessica Parker says Kim Cattrall’s claim that she had a toxic relationship with her on Sex and the City was “completely fabricated.”
What's going on between Robert Pattinson and Katy Perry?
For months, Brad Pitt has been battling Angelina Jolie for joint custody of their six children.
Kim Kardashian has reportedly asked Kanye West to sign a “mid-nuptial agreement” to protect her assets, and it could be a $1 billion divorce!
It’s official: Jennifer Lopez and Alex Rodriguez are moving in together.
Is Kim Kardashian and Kanye West heading for divorce?
It’s not over yet.
A selection of photos from around the world this week:
She’s one of the most sought-after models in the world but what’s real or fake in Kate Upton?
A selection of photos from around the world this week:
Jennifer Aniston and Justin Theroux have called it quits on their marriage after more than two years of marriage.
Kourtney Kardashian’s ex-boyfriend, Scott Disick, could be cashing in on his split from the Keeping Up With the Kardashians star.
Anne Hathaway Reportedly Says Matthew McConaughey Smells!
In Case You Missed It: a round-up of interesting Broadway-related links shared over the past week.
Jennifer Aniston and Brad Pitt are reportedly planning a skiing holiday in Aspen.
It was the wedding of the year!
Brad Pitt has not vowed to remain celibate for a year, according to a report from The Sun.
LeBron James Wants to Retire From the NBA as a Laker: What He's Said Carmen Mandato/Getty Images LeBron James has been a pillar of the NBA for over two decades, and the idea of retirement is inevitably coming into focus.
Julia Roberts has reportedly split from her long-term boyfriend Richard Gere.
Matt Lauer may no longer be a part of the Today show family, but he still stays in touch with his former colleagues on the morning news program.
Is Ryan Gosling ready to get married to Eva Mendes?
Ryan Seacrest was forced to talk about his ex-girlfriend Julianne Hough’s wedding on Live!
All images are copyrighted.
,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,
After months of speculation and a Calvin Klein campaign by all the Kardashian sisters that had Kylie fans convinced once and for all she was expecting a child, the news comes following the announcement that Khloe Kardashian is pregnant with her first baby with boyfriend Tristan Thompson.
If you've been living under a rock, you know that the former One Direction boy bander basically stole Gigi Hadid from the middle JoBro.
It's all change at the Jolie-Pitt household.
Travis Scott is starting to question whether or not he is the father of Kylie Jenner’s baby, according to a new report.
Tom Cruise and Jane Fonda have sparked romance rumours after they were spotted flirting at a film premiere in Los Angeles on Tuesday night.
"Partridge Family" star David Cassidy has revealed he has been diagnosed with dementia.
Liam Hemsworth and Miley Cyrus are reportedly planning to elope over the holidays.
A selection of photos from around the world this week:
Jennifer Lopez’s boyfriend Alex Rodriguez has been cheating on her for months, a source tells In Touch.
It's been a busy week for Nick Cannon.
A selection of photos from around the world this week:
Kim Kardashian is reportedly planning to divorce Kanye West because of his 'unpredictable' behaviour.
A daily guide to the week's TV news:
How do I reset my Google or Facebook password?
Actress Claire Kirby, who plays Princess Margaret in the Netflix drama “The Crown,” says she’s excited for the royal wedding.
Jessica Simpson and Eric Johnson are expecting their second child.
Selena Gomez checked into a treatment center, and RadarOnline.com has the exclusive details about her latest rehab stint.
Is it just us, or is Scott Disick‘s girlfriend, Sofia Richie, starting to look more and more like his ex Kourtney Kardashian every day?!
It’s a double wedding!
If you’ve ever wondered what it’s like to be the CEO of your family’s business empire, then you’ve come to the right place.
Kim Kardashian West is "more humiliated than ever" by her husband Kanye West's recent rants, says a Kardashian source.
It looks like Suri Cruise is following in her parents’ footsteps.
When Justin Bieber and Hailey Baldwin first started seeing each other, it wasn't easy.
What do they have in common?
Ellen DeGeneres' marriage to Portia de Rossi is on the rocks, according to a new report.
Angelina Jolie has never shied away from her dark past, which consisted of multiple health issues, but she has never commented on people’s recent concerns regarding her weight loss.
Katie Holmes and Jamie Foxx have called off their engagement, according to a new report.
Two years after Brad Pitt and Angelina Jolie announced they were splitting up, a judge has reportedly declared both Pitt and Jolie to be legally single.
Drake is reportedly jealous of Rihanna's new billionaire boyfriend Hassan Jameel.
It’s one of the most-talked-about movies of 2017.
Brad Pitt and Neri Oxman have reportedly struck up a friendship based on their shared love of architecture.
The Los Angeles Galaxy, one of Major League Soccer’s biggest clubs, is holding open trials for young English footballers in London this summer.
"The media's reaction to last night's tweet is inanely emblematic of the panoramic timorousness draped vastly and wantonly across any and all expressions of hope or joy that we now dare to publish or impart."
Ellen DeGeneres and Portia de Rossi are celebrating their ninth wedding anniversary!
BBC Sport takes a look at some of the key stories of the week.
How do I reset my Google or Facebook password?
The youngest member of the Kardashian-Jenner family has hit back at reports that she is expecting her first child.
It’s one of the most exciting news stories in Hollywood right now.
'Avatar: The Last Airbender' is out on DVD and Blu-ray this week.
“Don’t get caught with your mistress.” That’s the advice Ozzy Osbourne jokingly gave during a new interview while expressing regret over cheating on his wife, Sharon Osbourne, with a string of women.
A selection of photos from around the world this week:
Britney Spears and her boyfriend Sam Asghari take hitting the gym together to a whole new level, and prove just how in shape they really are.
In the wake of Jennifer Aniston and Justin Theroux’s announcement last week that they were separating, a lot has been printed about the split, and a lot of it seems to be coming from Theroux’s friends.
Can you believe it?
She was Elvis Presley’s first wife and the mother of his only child, Lisa Marie Presley.
Jennifer Aniston is not spending $200,000 on beauty treatments so that she can get revenge on Justin Theroux, her rep has told Gossip Cop.
It was a perfect summer date night for Ben Affleck.
Kylie Jenner is pregnant with her second child with Travis Scott, according to Life & Style.
It’s official!
Mariah Carey's dancer Bryan Tanaka wants more money to be a part of the singer's reality show!
RadarOnline.com has learned that Bobby Kennedy Jr.'s wife, reality TV star Cheryl Hines, had no idea what she was getting into when she married him.
It’s that time of year again when Hollywood’s A-list stars are tempted to get pregnant.
All photographs are copyrighted.
Katie Holmes and Jamie Foxx looked like they wanted to eat each other when they made a rare public appearance at a pre-Grammys gala.
It’s not every day you get to share the stage with your girlfriend.
The new season of Bachelor In Paradise is coming to an end.
Pop star Britney Spears is reportedly pregnant with her first child with boyfriend Sam Asghari.
Gwen Stefani is not inspired by Janet Jackson to have another baby, according to HollywoodLife.com.
Kim Kardashian and Kris Jenner, you're out!
It's been five years (and one day) since the shocking photos emerged of Kristen Stewart cheating on Twilight co-star and real-life boyfriend Robert Pattinson with her married Snow White and the Huntsman director Rupert Sanders.
Jennifer Aniston and Justin Theroux's divorce has turned into a real dog fight!
All images are copyrighted.
Donald Trump’s wife, Melania, reportedly refuses to share a bed with the president, Us Weekly reports.
He's the second in line to the British throne, he's the co-founder of the Invictus Games, he's the youngest member of the Royal Family, and he's even married to Meghan Markle.
It’s one for the books.
It’s all about the godfathers.
.
All images subject to copyright.
Kathie Lee Gifford debuts her new song ‘He Saw Jesus’ on TODAY Copied Print Inspired by her late husband, Frank Gifford, Kathie Lee Gifford teamed up with country songwriter Brett James to write an emotional new song.
Katy Perry hosted the VMAs on Sunday, and she was a total dud.
How do I reset my Google or Facebook password?
It's not every day you find out how much your child's diaper bag costs.
America's Got Talent judges Mel B, Simon Cowell and Howie Mandel weigh in on this week's performances.
Ryan Seacrest is joining "Live" as Kelly Ripa's new co-host, jump-starting a new era in the morning television ratings race.
Friends of Owen Wilson are worried the actor could spiral back into depression following the death of his father, a source has told RadarOnline.
Caitlyn Jenner may be revealing The Secrets of My Life in her new memoir, but here’s one she hasn’t detailed: The transgender star is breast obsessed and “goes to great lengths to keep hers looking good,” says a source.
The 88th Academy Awards will take place at the Dolby Theatre in Los Angeles, USA, on Sunday, March 10, 2024.
"Mission: Impossible - Rogue Nation" star Rebecca Ferguson reveals her teenage crush on her co-star Tom Cruise.
Brad Pitt and Angelina Jolie’s divorce is being treated like a chess game by the media.
The war of words between Jay-Z and Eric Benet may have reached a breaking point, according to a new report.
The Duke and Duchess of Sussex are expecting twins, Kensington Palace has confirmed to Life & Style.
Orlando Bloom joined Katy Perry on stage at her concert in Tokyo, Japan, on Tuesday night.
"She knows where the bodies are buried."
A source has told New Idea that Jennifer Aniston and Ellen DeGeneres had a tense dinner together at Craig’s restaurant in Los Angeles on Wednesday night.
They’re one of Hollywood’s most famous couples, and it looks like their marriage is back on track!
Rihanna's new man may be worth a lot of money, but who is he?
All images are copyrighted.
It’s one of those relationships that’s tough to wrap your head around, and not just because of the massive age gap.
In Case You Missed It: a round-up of the best fake news stories of the week.
All images subject to copyright.
He's one of the most famous men in the world.
"Keeping up with the Kardashians" star Kim Kardashian feels that the Duke and Duchess of Cambridge are snobbery towards her.
It’s official.
Angelina Jolie and Jared Leto are reportedly seeing each other again after she filed for divorce from Brad Pitt.
Jay-Z is reportedly refusing to allow his sister-in-law inside Beyonce's delivery room when she gives birth to their twins later this year.
It’s official... Beyoncé and Jay-Z are expecting twins.
Who will be on Meghan Markle’s wedding day?
It’s not easy being a pop star.
Kim Kardashian and Kanye West’s marriage is reportedly over.
It's official: Brad Pitt broke his kneecap while carrying his daughter.
It looks like they're going to have to take some time off!
Jennifer Lopez and Alex Rodriguez enjoyed a romantic weekend in Paris, documenting their trip on social media.
Kim Kardashian West says Caitlyn Jenner’s new memoir is “hurtful” to her mother.
Miley Cyrus and Liam Hemsworth are squabbling about where to live, according to a new report.
From Caitlyn Jenner's memoir to Drake Bell's feud with Josh Peck, here's a look back at some of the biggest celebrity feuds over the past year.
Beyonce and Jay-Z are reportedly burying the hatchet with Kanye West and Kim Kardashian West, according to reports.
Reality TV star Kendall Jenner is reportedly jealous of her sister Kim Kardashian West.
Johnny Depp’s fans are worried about the actor’s health after photos emerged of him appearing to have lost weight.
Supermodel Kendall Jenner takes Jay Leno for a spin in her '56 Corvette TV star Caitlyn Jenner watches as her daughter Kendall speeds off with Jay Leno in a classic car.
In a new interview with The New York Times, the rapper revealed that he had a "real conversation" about the possibility of a divorce over controversial remarks he made during an appearance on TMZ Live.
Katie Holmes has been spotted with a small baby bump, sparking rumours that she's expecting her first child with Jamie Foxx.
Kendall and Kylie Jenner were facing a lawsuit for a line of “vintage” tees featuring rapper Tupac Shakur’s image released by their eponymous clothing line, Kendall + Kylie, was dropped by the photographer who was suing the stars.
How many children do you want?
It’s one of TV’s longest-running morning shows, and one of its most popular presenters.
BBC Sport takes a look at some of the key stories of the week.
It’s been a busy few weeks for the former Friends star.
It's been a long time coming.
The Duke and Duchess of Cambridge are expecting twins, Kensington Palace has confirmed.
The cutest couple in Hollywood Town, Ashton Kutcher and Mila Kunis is married to be ending their relationship and has announced their separation from each other.
Kim Kardashian and Kanye West's daughter North West has been the target of mommy-shaming online for straightening her hair.
Can you believe it’s one year since they started dating?
Tom Hiddleston’s decision to ignore his fans and the media at this year’s Comic-Con has left fans disappointed.
It’s almost time for Taylor Swift’s 1989 world tour to kick off.
Kylie and Travis didn’t enjoy themselves as much as they should have during Jennifer Lopez’s VMAs performance!
It seems Robert Pattinson’s ex-fiancee FKA Twigs doesn’t care if he’s back with Kristen Stewart!
There are two things going through my mind right now.
Usher's ex-wife Tameka Foster has spoken out for the first time since she was killed in a car crash in 2009.
All images are copyrighted.
Justin Bieber and Selena Gomez have patched up their differences, sources tell Us Weekly.
Brad Pitt is ‘excited’ that his wife Angelina Jolie and their three children will be attending his daughter Charlotte’s birthday party, says a source.
Brad Pitt threatened to kill Harvey Weinstein after she told him of the alleged sexual harassment she experienced at the hands of the producer.
A selection of photos from around the world this week:
How do I reset my Google or Facebook password?
Mariah Carey got a star on the Hollywood Walk of Fame Wednesday, but she was eclipsed by the antics of her 4-year-old twins, Moroccan and Monroe.
Chris Hemsworth and his wife, Elsa Pataky, have opened up about their marriage to People magazine.
All images are copyrighted.
If you are in the early stages of falling in love, don't worry: You kind of are. If you are in the early stages of falling in love right now, and you feel a little crazy, don't worry: You kind of are.
"Veep" star Julia LouisDreyfus, who has been diagnosed with breast cancer, has received messages of support from across the political spectrum.
They’re one of the most famous couples in the world.
In the wake of the #metoo movement, actor and director Casey Affleck has spoken out about his own experiences with sexual harassment.
Ed Sheeran has revealed that being best friends with Taylor Swift allowed him to get close to lots of beautiful women, particularly when he was supporting her on tour.
It’s that time of year again.
Heidi Klum has a message to prove but her friends are not that into it, it turns out while she is one of the most renowned beauties in Hollywood and makes it look so easy, it isn’t, and behind closed doors, she makes sure those around her know it.
It’s no secret that Jennifer Lopez and Alex Rodriguez have been seeing each other for a while now, but how much do you know about their relationship?
Pop star Katy Perry paid tribute to the lesbian, gay, bisexual and transgender community at Human Rights Campaign’s gala dinner in Los Angeles on Saturday night.
It's that time of year again - baby dancing!
Ariana Grande is among a number of celebrities offering thoughts and messages to the victims of terror attacks in London on Saturday night.
Jennifer Lawrence is reportedly dating art dealer Cooke Maroney, just a week after reuniting with ex-boyfriend Darren Aronofsky.
Julia Roberts is not forcing her husband to go on the same detox diet that she supposedly follows, despite a made-up report. Julia Roberts is not forcing her husband Danny Moder to go on the same detox diet that she supposedly follows, despite a made-up report.
Kim Kardashian and Kanye West to Divorce: “Paranoia Has Taken Over [Kanye’s] Life” (EXCLUSIVE)
You learn something new every day, like the fact that Blake Shelton does not want Gwen Stefani talking about their relationship on The Voice.
Celebrities have been reacting to the news that President Donald Trump's son released emails about a meeting with a Russian lawyer.
It’s official: Meghan Markle is expecting her first child with Prince Harry.
There's no truth in this story.
It's not what you might think.
In the summer of 2003, the Duke and Duchess of Cambridge were living together at Kensington Palace.
How do I reset my Google or Facebook password?
Iron Man 3 is Downey's best film since Kiss Kiss Bang Bang.
Happy birthday, Betty White!
It’s been a few months since Selena Gomez and Justin Bieber called it quits, but it looks like they’re back together!
President Donald Trump speaks during a news conference in the East Room of the White House on August 12, 2017 in Washington, DC.
It's no secret that weight gain is a problem for many people.
What do consumers really want from a perfume?
All pictures copyrighted.
If you've ever wanted to know what it's like to be in a relationship with a royal, then you've come to the right place.
Gwen Stefani and Blake Shelton have broken up, according to a new report.
How do I reset my Google or Facebook password?
The winners of this year's Bafta Television awards will be announced at a ceremony at London's Royal Albert Hall on 8 February.
Cellulite Makes Caitlyn Jenner Feel So Womanly!
The first photos from Kim Kardashian and Kanye West's wedding have been released.
It's official: Miley Cyrus and Liam Hemsworth are back together.
Jennifer Aniston is reportedly "in revenge mode" over Emma Stone and Justin Theroux.
It all started at an IHOP.
Jessica Biel and Justin Theroux are expecting their second child, a source has revealed.
"The Voice" coaches Blake Shelton and Gwen Stefani say they're "not paying as much attention" to their romance as they used to.
Images courtesy of AFP, EPA, Getty Images and Reuters
In case you missed it, here's a round-up of some of the most talked-about celebrity breakups over the past few months.
Blake Shelton and Gwen Stefani have been going strong since they began dating in November 2015, and apparently their romance has been hot and heavy since the beginning!
All images are copyrighted.
The custody battle between Brad Pitt and Angelina Jolie just heated up, with a judge ordering new restrictions for Jolie’s involvement in Pitt’s interaction with their six children.
It’s not easy being a new mother, right?
It’s been a busy few weeks for Blake Shelton.
How do I reset my Google or Facebook password?
It’s not every day you get to share the stage with your girlfriend.
It’s been a busy few months for the Kardashian-Jenner clan.
It’s that time of year again.
Aerosmith singer Steven Tyler has denied reports that he had a seizure while touring in Brazil this week.
Brad Pitt and Angelina Jolie have reportedly called off their 'legal attack dogs' in a bid to save their marriage.
Jessica Simpson has denied reports that she is pregnant with her third child.
It was all about the kids at the Hollywood premiere of the animated film Kung Fu Panda 3.
It’s official: Selena Gomez and The Weeknd are expecting their first child together!
When Prince Charles placed a wreath at the Remembrance Day service at St Paul's Cathedral on Sunday, it was a historic moment for the Royal Family.
Kourtney and Khloé Kardashian are having a bit of a row.
US President Donald Trump has paid tribute to Senator John McCain, who has died at the age of 81.
Kate Hudson is an American actress, producer and entrepreneur who has a net Worth of $80 million.
If you are the owner of this domain, log in to Cloudflare for a domain renewal options.
Chris Brown's ex-girlfriend says he's scaring her away from posting pics of herself with other men.
One Direction’s Harry Styles is reportedly worried about Liam Payne’s new relationship with Cheryl.
Who’s the nicest person on the set of The Ellen DeGeneres Show?
Brad Pitt and Jennifer Aniston may actually have cause for hope!
Pop stars Selena Gomez and Paulina Rubio are teaming up for a new single.
Prince Harry and Meghan Markle are reportedly planning to start a family "as soon as she can."
What do you think of Donald Trump's speech?
Kourtney Kardashian will never get back with Scott Disick, a source tells PEOPLE.
For those wondering how much Taylor Swift is still enjoying keeping her love life almost completely private, People has an update.
Caitlyn Jenner says she doesn’t really talk to the Kardashians anymore.
It's that time of year again.
Kim Kardashian West has revealed on The Real that she used a surrogate to give birth to her second child with Kanye West.
We all know what being on a break did to Ross and Rachel.
How much is Owen Wilson worth?
Kris Jenner's Valentine's Day plans involved guzzling a lot of booze, murdering karaoke classics and twerking to Sir Mix-a-lot.
Pop star Justin Bieber has cancelled his world tour, citing exhaustion.
He’s one of Hollywood’s most eligible bachelors, and now Jared Leto has his sights set on a younger woman!
The Coachella Valley Music and Arts Festival sold out in an hour on Wednesday.
The Republican health care bill is dead.
'I have such debilitating anxiety because of everything going on that I literally wake up in the middle of the night with full-on panic attacks.'
Actor Liam Neeson has spoken of his fear of public speaking.
While Prince William may lead the charmed life of a royal, it can't be easy having a wife with perfect hair and a brother who is a pro at cracking jokes.
It’s official: Selena Gomez and The Weeknd are expecting their first child together!
It all started at an IHOP.
Justin Bieber and Selena Gomez appear to have rekindled their relationship, sending fans of the pop couple into a frenzy.
Irrfan Khan's wife Sutapa has finally ended her silence with a heartfelt letter, which also has inputs from his sons Babil and Ayaan.
Kanye West made his long-awaited debut on his favorite quiz show on Sunday night (June 10) when he and wife Kim Kardashian West faced off against the rest of the Kardashian clan on Family Feud.
Kylie Jenner has been inundated with comments from fans who believe she’s risking her health by using a waist trainer to reclaim her shape.
I cannot in good conscience vote for the Graham-Cassidy proposal.
From George Takei to Michael Phelps, here’s a look at some of the biggest April Fools Day pranks in Hollywood this year.
It's official.
Caitlyn Jenner allegedly isn’t too fond of the risqué photos her former stepdaughters Kim Kardashian and Kourtney Kardashian have been sharing across their social media pages in recent days.
Dean McDermott's Net Worth and Salary:
A selection of photos from around the world this week:
Jennifer Aniston and Justin Theroux's relationship is 'getting nasty', according to a new report.
Comedian Craig Robinson has revealed that he lost 50 pounds by following a vegan lifestyle.
Kylie Jenner has revealed that she's got "all her filler" out of the way.
There's a possibility that Zayn Malik will stop touring completely if girlfriend Gigi Hadid has anything to do with it! There's a possibility that Zayn Malik will stop touring completely if girlfriend Gigi Hadid has anything to do with it!
Jay Z is fighting back against a man who claims he's his son.
Angelina Jolie has reportedly hired Johnny Depp's lawyer as she prepares for her divorce from Brad Pitt.
We Should Listen to Palestinians, Not Selena Gomez (Or Other Cele...
Brad Pitt and Angelina Jolie's marriage may be on the rocks, but it's not over yet.
Janet Jackson and Paris Jackson were reportedly "frosty" at their father Joe Jackson's funeral, RadarOnline.com has learned.
Justin Bieber and Selena Gomez are back together, and it looks like they’re going to have a baby.
Jennifer Aniston has reportedly told her ex-husband Justin Theroux to'stop playing the fool'.
It’s one of TV’s longest-running morning shows, and one of its most popular presenters.
All images are copyrighted.
It’s no secret that the Kardashian-Jenner clan has had its share of ups and downs over the years.
Jennifer Aniston and Justin Theroux's marriage was a total disaster, according to a new report.
It’s all change for Jennifer Aniston.
As he continues his social media ramblings, RadarOnline.com has learned exclusively Kanye West is desperate for wife Kim Kardashian to show more support, and wants the world to see them as a united couple.
In her first lengthy sit-down magazine interview in more than a year, Caitlyn Jenner speaks to Variety about her conscious choice to focus, unheralded, on being a behind-the-scenes advocate for transgender rights on Capitol Hill.
If you're wondering what's next for one of Hollywood's most famous couples, you're in luck.
Scott Disick is "very happy" his ex Kourtney Kardashian has split from her boyfriend Younes Bendjima, E!
George Clooney showed off pics of his twins with wife Amal while attending a Casamigos House of Friends Dinner at TAO in L.A.
Justin Bieber and Selena Gomez's break becoming a permanent breakup may be sinking in for the Biebs, or so People's new report suggests. The reality of Justin Bieber and Selena Gomez's break becoming a permanent breakup may be sinking in for the Biebs, or so People's new report suggests
Angelina Jolie’s divorce from Brad Pitt has caused Jennifer Aniston to turn to her ex-boyfriend, Gerard Butler, according to the Express.
Angelina Jolie is reportedly worried that her ex-husband, Brad Pitt, will be influenced by his former lover, Quentin Taratino.
Reality TV star Bruce Jenner has been involved in a fatal car crash in Malibu, California.
What's up with Gwyneth Paltrow and Chris Martin?
LeBron James Wants to Retire From the NBA as a Laker: What He's Said Carmen Mandato/Getty Images LeBron James has been a pillar of the NBA for over two decades, and the idea of retirement is inevitably coming into focus.
A trivia game has accidentally revealed that Prince Harry and Kate Middleton have had a child together.
Did she just call Drake a “booty call”?
All images are copyrighted.
Prince Harry's wife Meghan Markle has moved on after her glamorous wedding to Prince Harry, RadarOnline.com has learned exclusively, leaving her American friends and family in her glittering dust.
Vanessa Hudgens won’t be going to see her ex Zac Efron’s new film Baywatch because she’s “a little animosity” towards him, an insider has told HollywoodLife.com.
As 2017 draws to a close, we take a look back at some of Caitlyn Jenner's most memorable family moments.
Blake Shelton may be a huge country star, but he's not nearly as popular as future princess Meghan Markle!
It's not like he's in a relationship right now.
The couple, who were engaged in 2015, have split after more than two years together, a source tells PEOPLE.
How do you feel when you're six months pregnant?
Jennifer Aniston’s new Netflix boss Ted Sarandos is a very close friend of Angelina Jolie, according to an insider.
How do I reset my Google or Facebook password?
As they prepare to welcome a child together in the wake of ongoing cheating allegations, Khloé Kardashian and Tristan Thompson‘s future together is unclear.
It's official: Gwen Stefani won't be returning to The Voice for Season 13. Gwen Stefani has played a big part in the show, coaching three seasons: Season 7, Season 9, and most recently Season 12.
It’s no secret that Fergie and Josh Duhamel are no longer together.
If you’ve ever wondered what it’s like to work in the entertainment industry, you’ve come to the right place.
John Mayer has been bombarding Katy Perry with calls and flowers in a bid to win her back, a source tells HollywoodLife.com.
Kate Mara and Jamie Bell hold hands while heading into the hotspot Chiltern Firehouse together on Saturday (July 1) in London, England.
If there's one thing we know for sure about Rihanna, it's that she won't take no for an answer. According to a source from Daily Mail, Rihanna is "smitten" with Jameel.
Is Ben Affleck texting the nanny again, and is Jennifer Garner really pregnant with twins and ‘all alone’?
One Direction fans are up in arms over a technical glitch that prevented them from streaming Harry Styles’ new single on Spotify.
It’s not that Kim Kardashian doesn’t want Khloé Kardashian to have a good pregnancy and a healthy baby.
.
Sarah Jessica Parker, star of Sex and the City, meets a young fan in New York.
A selection of photos from around the world this week:
Justin Timberlake and Jessica Biel are expecting their second child together.
The Duke and Duchess of Cambridge have announced the birth of their third child.
Applebee's has a new way to celebrate Valentine's Day.
Prince William has banned Prince Charles from seeing his children, according to a new report.
How do I reset my Google or Facebook password?
Amber Rose asked a club not to play the music of her exes.
“I’m looking out the window right now and everything is greener and bluer.”
It's been almost two years since Angelina Jolie announced her split from Brad Pitt, and their divorce continues to get ugly. It's been almost two years since Angelina Jolie announced her split from Brad Pitt, and their divorce continues to get ugly.
Kourtney Kardashian’s ex Scott Disick is hooking up with Kris Jenner and they’re sending each other sexy texts!
Nicole Kidman has premiered her new film at the Venice Film Festival.
Jennifer Aniston is reportedly moving out of her Los Angeles home and moving in with ex-husband Brad Pitt!
How do I reset my Google or Facebook password?
Donald Trump, George Takei, and Lin-Manuel Miranda are among those offering their support after a shooting at a baseball field in Virginia.
It’s almost time for the Academy Awards, which will take place on Sunday, February 23 at the Kodak Theatre in Los Angeles.
It’s less than a month until the royal wedding between Prince Harry and Meghan Markle.
Rachel Weisz says she never thought she would get married.
Pop star Mariah Carey is "not dating multiple people", a source tells Gossip Cop.
Kim and Kourtney Kardashian's feud wages on, and in an exclusive new clip, things get even more heated.
It’s not over yet.
A selection of photos from around the world this week:
The BBC's hit drama The Night Manager is returning for a fourth series.
Ben Affleck has put an 87-acre plantation near Savannah, Ga., on the market for $8.9 million.
It's been a year since Caitlyn Jenner came out as transgender.
New San Francisco 49ers offensive coordinator Greg Roman says he wants the team to be more balanced.
It’s not every day that you get a birthday wish from a comic book hero.
Home Alone actor Macaulay Culkin has claimed that Hollywood studio executives use child stars’ skin to make boots, belts and wallets that they use as “skin trophies”. Les Echos’ report translated into English: “Macaulay Culkin claims Hollywood studio executives rape and murder child stars and use their skin
We'd like to welcome your comments on this story.
Milo Ventimiglia says his "This Is Us" co-star Mandy Moore was "crying every day" during his death scene.
The Duke and Duchess of Cambridge are expecting twins, according to a report in Life & Style.
The Duke and Duchess of Cambridge have announced that they are expecting their first child.
Bookmakers have suspended betting on Tom Hiddleston to be the next James Bond.
Mariah Carey stopped singing during her live New Year's Eve set as pre-recorded vocals continued to play behind her.
"It's like that scene in Doubt [2008, in which Philip Seymour Hoffman plays a priest suspected of inappropriate behavior], where he's talking about how to take back gossip?"
During her Reputation Stadium Tour opening night show in Glendale, Arizona, the 28-year-old star opened up to her fans in an intimate moment about going through a difficult time “a couple of years ago” while alluding to her feud with Kim Kardashian West.
It’s Father’s Day on the other side of the pond and Brad Pitt is celebrating with his children.
Kim Kardashian West lost a diamond earring while on holiday in Bora Bora.
Is Princess Diana’s body buried at Althorp Park?
Beyonce is not upset with Ryan Reynolds and Blake Lively about jokes made about the singer-songwriter in Marvel’s second installment of Deadpool.
How do I reset my Google or Facebook password?
Gwen Stefani shuts down rumours she was 'dumped' by Blake Shelton over 'jealousy and drama' with loved-up snap.
In the wake of her high-profile split to Brad Pitt in 2005, Jennifer Aniston said: 'What's fantastic about marriage is getting through those ebbs and flows with the same person, and looking across the room and saying, 'I'm still here, and I still love you.'
Miley Cyrus has appeared on The Ellen DeGeneres Show, where she was promoting her new single Bangerz.
Twilight fans rejoiced when Robert Pattinson and Kristen Stewart were spotted together at Johnny Depp’s birthday party.
Kim Kardashian West, Kris Jenner and Khloe Kardashian are donating half a million dollars to help the victims of Hurricane Harvey.
It's hard to believe it's just one year since they were born.
A selection of photos from around the world this week:
It’s one of TV’s longest-running morning shows, and one of its most popular presenters.
It’s been a whirlwind year for one Hollywood couple.
If you’ve ever felt homesick, you’ll know the feeling.
'The Voice' coaches Adam Levine, Christina Aguilera, Cee Lo Green, Will.i.am and Pharrell Williams have been talking about the new season of the talent show.
It’s one of the biggest breakups in country music history!
Prince Harry’s girlfriend Meghan Markle is reportedly having an easy time of winning her place among the royals, as her meetings with Kate, William, and the queen have been reported as going well, according to an article from Us Weekly.
Why Zooey Deschanel and Jake Johnson’s feud?
Angelina Jolie and Brad Pitt have been married for 11 years and have six children.
Brad Pitt is reportedly planning to surprise his children with a trip to Coachella next month!
The Duke and Duchess of Cambridge are reportedly considering going to couple’s therapy as a way to save their marriage.
How much do you know about the world's most famous couple?
Miley Cyrus and Liam Hemsworth are still very much an item, despite a recent report speculating that the couple had broken up.
The parent company of Fox News says it knew about a settlement over sexual harassment allegations against Bill O'Reilly by an on-air analyst before the company extended the ex-host's $25 million contract in February.
They're still together, they're still dating... and they're not splitting up!
Kaia Gerber made her film debut at the Toronto International Film Festival on Sunday night.
Spoiler alert: This article contains spoilers for the second season of The Handmaid's Tale.
Kim Kardashian West hopped onto Snapchat to defend her husband Kanye West's... Kim Kardashian West hopped onto Snapchat to defend her husband Kanye West's honor tonight, posting a series of videos that prove Taylor Swift gave West permission to rap about her on infamous The Life of Pablo single "Famous." (The line in
Prince Harry and Meghan Markle, now the Duke and Duchess of Sussex, leave St. George’s Chapel at Windsor Castle after their May 19 wedding ceremony.
It's all about the music!
It’s that time of year again.
They’ve had their fair share of ups and downs, but they always seem to find their way back to each other.
Blake Shelton and Gwen Stefani were spotted at church on Easter Sunday, but what’s holding him back from having a baby of his own?
Ben Affleck wants to take on more roles in family films because he wants his children to see his work.
Is this the love of her life?
Nina Dobrev and Nikki Reed have always gotten along.
The late Notorious B.I.G.‘s mother, Voletta Wallace, has slammed Kylie and Kendall Jenner over their latest marketing tool: “vintage” T-shirts with the pair’s faces superimposed over some of rap and rock’s biggest icons.
Find out more about TrendolizerTM at get.trendolizer.com
All photographs  Getty Images.
Did Demi Lovato have plastic surgery?
As the Kardashian-Wests share their first photo as a family of five on Instagram, why do they look so unhappy?
A selection of photos from around the world this week:
He’s one of Hollywood’s biggest heartthrobs, but could Liam Hemsworth be about to take his career to the next level?
A look at some of the quirkier snippets from the news this week:
How do I reset my Google or Facebook password?
The Duke and Duchess of Cambridge’s marriage is reportedly in trouble.
The Duke and Duchess of Sussex are expecting their first child in the spring of 2018.
Kim Kardashian and Kanye West are now the parents of a third baby, a girl, Kardashian announced on Twitter Tuesday.
All images are copyrighted.
Bradley Cooper and Irina Shayk have called time on their relationship, according to reports.
It's official: Kylie Jenner is pregnant with her first child.
Donald Trump has called Meryl Streep a "Hillary flunky" on Twitter.
For the second time in as many weeks, news of a One Direction split has spread via social media.
Naomi Watts and Liam Neeson are not dating, according to Gossip Cop.
Singer John Mayer has called for gun control in the wake of the Las Vegas shooting.
A new report claims that Tom Hiddleston was only trying to stay on Taylor Swift’s good side.
Gwyneth Paltrow has responded to an ob-gyn who advised against using vaginal jade eggs.
Sources close to Kevin Hart tell TMZ a woman has demanded money from the comedian after shooting a video with him in which Kevin and the woman are engaged in "sexually suggestive" conduct. Sources tell TMZ a woman has allegedly demanded money from Kevin after shooting a video with him in which Kevin and the woman are engaged
Taylor Swift’s new album Reputation will be released on 10 November.
It's no secret that the Kardashian-Jenner family is one of the most famous in the world.
Miley Cyrus has revealed that her and Liam Hemsworth's home was destroyed in the recent wildfires in California.
Prince George and Princess Charlotte have made their first public appearances since the birth of their brother and sister.
Gwen Stefani has played coy about her new romance with Blake Shelton.
All images are copyrighted.
It seems that Brad Pitt and Jennifer Aniston’s marriage is back on track.
Sandra Bullock’s marriage to boyfriend Bryan Randall is on hold!
Valentine’s Day is just around the corner.
The lip kit showed off her curves as she posed up for a sexy shoot Kylie Jenner won't let motherhood stop her being sexy as she poses for sultry pics in white swimsuit Kylie Jenner won't let motherhood stop her being sexy.
Stop us if you've heard this one before: Beyoncé broke the internet with an epic reveal that we've all been breathlessly waiting for. Stop us if you've heard this one before: Beyoncé broke the internet with an epic reveal that we've all been breathlessly waiting for.
Jason Mraz Reflects on Taylor Swift's 'Amazing' Growth as He Prepares to Dance to her music on DWTS
Kim Kardashian's tweet about Kylie Jenner's Forbes cover shows that she's the farthest from jealous someone could get: she's proud. People on Twitter started pitting the sisters against each other over their money, but Kim Kardashian's tweet about Kylie Jenner's Forbes cover shows that she's
All videos are copyrighted.
A selection of photos from around the world this week:
The Duke and Duchess of Cambridge are expecting their third child.
Caitlyn Jenner is facing knee-replacement surgery, RadarOnline.com has learned.
It’s that time of year again when we’re all trying to figure out who we’re in love with.
In case you missed it, here's your chance to catch up on the latest scoop from Bradley Cooper and Lady Gaga.
Kim Kardashian has offered her support to Ryan Seacrest after he was accused of sexual assault by his former stylist.
Pop star Selena Gomez and actor Justin Theroux are reportedly seeing each other, according to a new report.
Justin Bieber and Kourtney Kardashian Spotted Together in Hollywood!
.
Brad Pitt and Jennifer Aniston are reportedly getting back together thanks to George Clooney.
A selection of photos from around the world this week:
Notoriously private couple Katie Holmes and Jamie Foxx have reportedly spent a few days together on a secret getaway in Mexico just before the actress’ birthday.
It’s that time of year again!
Vanessa Lachey and Maks Chmerkovskiy have a problem.
All images are copyrighted.
Brad Pitt and Angelina Jolie have reportedly called off their 'legal attack dogs' in a bid to save their marriage.
They’re back!
A selection of photos from around the world this week:
It's been 20 years since George Clooney made his debut on the big screen.
It’s hard to know what to make of it all.
The Internet Isn’t Too Happy With Vanity Fair’s Cover Story About Margot Robbie It’s been slammed as “creepy and lecherous”–but is it really that bad?
How do I reset my Google or Facebook password?
With more than 50 films to his name, George Clooney is one of Hollywood's most successful actors.
It’s been a long time coming.
Miley Cyrus and Liam Hemsworth’s fight over an engagement ring was “one of the worst they’ve ever had,” reports Life & Style.
Is Sarah Jessica Parker and Matthew Broderick’s marriage on the rocks?
Maddox Jolie-Pitt has been noticeably absent from the last two major events - and it seems he would prefer it that way. However, her oldest son Maddox Jolie-Pitt has been noticeably absent from the last two major events — and it seems he would prefer it that way.
Thousands of people have gathered in Boston to counter-protest a white supremacist rally.
It started out as a casual dinner date.
It's been almost a week since Prince Harry and Meghan Markle wed, but there are still plenty of royal wedding myths out there.
Bette Midler, Ben Platt andNatasha, Pierre and the Great Comet of 1812 were among the winners at this year’s Tony Awards.
Kim Kardashian is excited for her younger sister Khloe’s baby news after it was revealed that the star is expecting her first child with boyfriend Tristan Thompson.
Jessica Simpson loves her husband Eric Johnson’s fuller figure these days!
If you’ve ever wondered what Nicole Kidman looks like on the red carpet, then you’ve come to the right place.
Alec Baldwin has revealed that he's been paid $1,400 per episode for playing Donald Trump on Saturday Night Live.
Can you believe it’s one year since they started dating?
Brad Pitt’s new girlfriend, Neri Oxman, was spotted out and about on Wednesday, April 18, heading to teach a class at the Massachusetts Institute of Technology. Brad Pitt’s new girlfriend, Neri Oxman, was spotted out and about on Wednesday, April 18, heading to teach a class at the Massachusetts
The backlash surrounding comedian Kathy Griffin’s reviled photo shoot depicting her holding the severed head of President Trump hasn’t let down since it first exploded earlier this week.
How do I reset my Google or Facebook password?
Caitlyn Jenner and O.J. Simpson?
A selection of photos from around the world this week:
How do I reset my Google or Facebook password?
Lady Gaga is facing a deposition in the Kesha defamation case.
Back in 1999, Keanu Reeves sat down for an interview with Empire to talk about his little sci-fi project, public perception and rumours that he had secretly married David Geffen.
It's been over two years since Gwen Stefani and Blake Shelton first got together, and a source close to the 41-year-old country singer tells ET that they're happier than ever!
Taylor Swift's new song "Look What You Made Me Do" is about Kim Kardashian and Kanye West's Paris robbery.
.
Ryan Gosling and Eva Mendes are reportedly married.
She’s one of the most famous women in the world, and she’s also one of the most famous men in the world.
How do I reset my Google or Facebook password?
Orlando Bloom is best known for his roles in The Lord of the Rings and Pirates of the Caribbean films.
Jennifer Aniston and Justin Theroux’s marriage is in trouble, according to Star magazine.
Jennifer Aniston is "casually dating" again following her split from husband Justin Theroux.
Could this be the year she takes a break from acting?
Glenn Close and Jonathan Pryce star in The Wife, a Swedish drama about a Nobel Prize-winning husband and wife.
Justin Theroux has been linked to nine different women since announcing his split from Jennifer Aniston.
A lawyer representing the diver who Elon Musk recently accused of being a pedophile said on Wednesday that he sent the Tesla chief a letter that says that he’s preparing to file a libel lawsuit.
Oscar-nominated actor Michael Fassbender is taking on the world’s fastest race cars in the Ferrari Challenge.
Angelina Jolie reportedly has her eyes set on a new man a year and a half after her divorce from Brad Pitt.
All images are copyrighted.
Jennifer Garner and Ben Affleck are not in love, according to a fabricated tabloid story.
Kim Kardashian and Kanye West’s marriage is in trouble!
Jennifer Lopez and Alex Rodriguez have been dating for more than a year, and the couple made a recent high-profile appearance together at the Met Gala, where A-Rod couldn't stop Instagramming.
She’s the one who got away!
All pictures copyrighted.
A Hollywood producer is being sued for the drowning of his assistant, who was found dead while celebrating Jennifer Aniston and Justin Theroux’s honeymoon in Bora Bora.
It's the collaboration that's been on everyone's lips for years, and now the former child star has spoken out on the upcoming hit...
Leonardo DiCaprio and Nina Agdal have broken up.
It’s not every day you get to confront a tarantula in front of your children, but Nicole Kidman did just that.
As Prince George turns five tomorrow, there is something about his future that he has not been told.
The actress who plays Hermione in the new Harry Potter play says it’s important for people to see it because of the current political climate.
If you've been paying attention to social media in the last few days, you might have noticed that there's been a backlash against Taylor Swift.
Former Today show host Billy Bush is reportedly desperate to salvage his career with a spot on Dancing With the Stars.
From professional sports teams to celebrities, here are some ways the biggest names in entertainment celebrated the 2017 solar eclipse.
Take a look back at some of the most memorable celebrity meals over the years.
"I can’t tell if it’s menopause or if it’s just been the year I’ve had."
We’ve all been there.
Rachel Weisz and Colin Firth at the premiere of The Mercy at the Curzon Mayfair in London.
It's been a tough few months for the Hollywood A-listers, with Brad Pitt's divorce and the birth of twins.
Jenna Dewan and Channing Tatum are having a hard time agreeing on the terms of their divorce, sources tell In Touch.
Prince Harry Emotional Thomas Markle Says Meghan Is A ‘Prize’ For Harry, Talks Regrets In First Interview
It's official: Meghan Markle will not have a maid of honor at her royal wedding to Prince Harry.
A selection of photos from around the world this week:
If you’re on the market for a bride-to-be, here’s some good news!
How do I reset my Google or Facebook password?
In case you missed it, here’s a look back at some of the most talked-about moments from the latest episode of Keeping Up With the Kardashians.
California’s drought may be over, but farmers in the state’s Central Valley are still worried about their water supply.
A selection of photos from around the world this week:
Brad Pitt may not be attending the Golden Globes, but he’s not the only one!
Rihanna and Hassan Jameel have been spotted out and about in London and Tokyo over the past few months.
What's the real reason for the split?
Eva Longoria and José “Pepe” Bastn are expecting their first child.
If you're a Game of Thrones fan, you're probably already familiar with one of the show's stars.
All images are copyrighted.
Are Scarlett Johansson and Bobby Flay dating?
Glenn Close is set to play Hillary Clinton in a new film!
A selection of photos from around the world this week:
Jennifer Lopez has released a new single.
You can unsubscribe at any time.
How do I reset my Google or Facebook password?
The ongoing feud between the Kardashian-Jenner family and Blac Chyna appears to be heating up again.
It’s that time of year again, when celebrities share their parenting tips and advice on social media.
It's Flip or Flop time again!
Pop star Justin Bieber is reported to be a member of Church, a global strand of Christianity that looks to recruit followers with music, dancing and community care projects.
Kourtney Kardashian and Scott Disick are no longer together.
Is Jamie Foxx and Katie Holmes still together?
ABC has cancelled its hit sitcom ‘Roseanne’ after its star, Roseanne Barr, posted a racist tweet.
How do I reset my Google or Facebook password?
Scott Disick may have split from Kourtney Kardashian last year, but he’s still in a relationship with Sofia Richie.
I magine being in the public eye since the bright-eyed age of seven, wherein every part of your career and personal life become public fodder. I magine being in the public eye since the bright-eyed age of seven, wherein every part of your career and personal life become public fodder.
Is Kristen Stewart Still Dating Stella Maxwell?
She gave fans a taste of her new music by dropping Back to you on May 10, and quickly cleared up speculation suggesting the song is about her on-off romance with former boyfriend Justin Bieber.
"Teen Mom" star Kailyn Lowry has been speaking out about her struggles with depression.
Will Ferrell and Amy Poehler have been "forced to pretend to be married" on the set of their new film 50/50, a source has told us.
All pictures are copyrighted.
The TelevisionAcademy.com sites look and perform best when using a modern browser.
Kim Kardashian and Kris Jenner could be facing a nasty feud, according to a new report.
"Karma" is a word that is often used to describe things that are not meant to be.
If you've ever watched a travel film, you'll know what I'm talking about.
Katie Holmes has finally gone public with Jamie Foxx after a rumoured romance that became an open secret in Hollywood.
It's that time of year again: wedding season.
Kim Kardashian has taken to Twitter to defend her husband Kanye West.
"The media is fabricating stories and none of these accusations are remotely true."
It's official: she's back.
It all started with a Vanity Fair interview.
Ever since FKA Twigs broke up with Robert Pattinson last month, we've been hearing a lot about his new girlfriend.
It's a split you don't want to make public.
The former Friends star is expecting her first child with husband Justin Theroux!
Sandra Bullock and Bryan Randall are "doing perfectly" in their relationship, a source tells E!
It looks like Katie Holmes and Tom Cruise’s marriage is back on track.
Jennifer Lopez’s boyfriend Alex Rodriguez has been cheating on her for months, a source tells In Touch.
Beyoncé and Jay-Z’s On The Run II tour kicks off in Cardiff, Wales, on Thursday (June 7).
He’s back!
It’s been a year since Brad Pitt and Angelina Jolie filed for divorce, so you might think the actress has moved on?
A rep for Jessica Simpson has told Gossip Cop that the 37-year-old is not down in the dumps because of her weight gain.
A selection of photos from around the world this week:
Brad Pitt and Jennifer Aniston are expecting their first child together, a source close to the pair tells Star magazine.
In the latest issue of Vogue magazine, the Twilight star opens up about being in love, fame and feminism.
Selena Gomez and The Weeknd Are Already in Trouble (EXCLUSIVE) Looks like things have already taken a turn for Selena Gomez and The Weeknd.
It was a night to remember at the 2023 CMT Music Awards.
Amal Clooney has told George Clooney not to ride scooters with their twins, according to a report in Star magazine.
Meghan Markle and Prince Harry’s wedding was one of the most anticipated events of the year.
Police are investigating a burglary at the Los Angeles home of one of the world’s most famous couples.
A selection of photos from around the world this week:
A Justin Bieber fan has been arrested at his Los Angeles home after visiting the property for the third time in the space of a week.
The world’s most famous Italian-American is returning to the big screen.
A selection of photos from around the world this week:
Cleveland Cavaliers forward Tristan Thompson has avoided a suspension for Game 2 of the NBA Finals following his actions near the end of Game 1 on Thursday night.
Kim Karadashian'resents Kanye West's 'other woman' - as she 'feels increasingly left out of his life'
A judge has reportedly warned the actress to help repair the relationship between Brad and their six children Angelina Jolie 'could lose custody of kids to Brad Pitt if she doesn't allow him access'
The couple’s best efforts to repair their damaged relationship were unsuccessful and now friends think this will end in divorce.
Blac Chyna is calling her ex Rob Kardashian a cyber bully and revenge porn perpetrator after he posted several nude photos of her on Instagram and Twitter. Blac Chyna is calling her ex Rob Kardashian a cyber bully and revenge porn perpetrator after he posted several nude photos of her on Instagram and
On the 27th anniversary of his brother's death, Blake Shelton pays tribute to Richie Shelton.
Jennifer Aniston’s hairstylist and close friend Chris McMillan still classes The Leftovers star Justin Theroux as a client and has been with him on a number of occasions since he parted ways with Aniston, 49, at the end of last year.
It's official: Miranda Lambert and Anderson East are no longer together.
Sources connected with the family tell us the twins were born Tuesday in a Los Angeles hospital.
A selection of photos from around the world this week:
Tom Hanks and Meryl Streep attend the European premiere of The Post in Milan, Italy on Monday, January 15.
Friends star David Schwimmer is determined to win Jennifer Aniston over again, according to a friend.
A source tells Us Weekly that Markle’s half-sister, Samantha Grant, and nephew, Tyler Dooley, will be flying down to London to be TV wedding correspondents.
As Taylor Swift and Selena Gomez celebrate their 14th wedding anniversary, we take a look back at their life-long friendship.
All images subject to copyright.
All images are copyrighted.
It's the beginning of the end.
One of the most famous women in the world has stopped getting lip filler.
Angelina Jolie, Tom Cruise and Brad Pitt are just a few of the stars who have worked with Sherry Lansing.
It's official!
Caitlyn Jenner’s friends are confident she won’t ever date another woman again, but she’s keeping that decision to herself for now.
How much is Justin Timberlake and Jessica Biel's net worth?
Avenged Sevenfold talks about ‘The Stage’ and its first ever Grammy nomination Nonbelievers may guffaw, but perhaps Avenged Sevenfold wasn’t fated to possess a Grammy until the Huntington Beach band issued its seventh album.
It was supposed to be one of the most touching and beautiful days of her life.
All images are copyrighted.
Paris Jackson’s family is worried about her new boyfriend.
Jay-Z may have splashed the cash on a night out in New York, but some people are complaining that his $11,100 (£7,944.49) tip just wasn’t enough.
Cara Delevingne has been deleted from the Storm Models website after reportedly dropping the agency to focus on her acting career.
If you've ever wondered what the world's most famous couple do when they're not filming Keeping Up with the Kardashians, then you've come to the right place.
It's that time of year again: wedding season!
It's official: Gwen Stefani won't be returning to The Voice for Season 13. Gwen Stefani has played a big part in the show, coaching three seasons: Season 7, Season 9, and most recently Season 12.
Angelina Jolie and Jared Leto are reportedly seeing each other again after she filed for divorce from Brad Pitt.
A selection of photos from around the world this week:
It looks like the Kardashians aren’t going to be attending the Oscars anytime soon.
White House press secretary Sarah Huckabee Sanders lashed out at gun control advocates on Wednesday, a day after a gunman killed 12 people at a country music concert in Las Vegas.
As powerful men across several industries continue to face allegations of sexual abuse, the idea of a Bush redemption tour might seem unnecessary and, perhaps, even counter-productive.
Angelina Jolie still holds a grudge against Margot Robbie, a source tells In Touch.
Reality TV star Kim Kardashian and rapper Kanye West are no longer sleeping in the same bed, according to reports.
Michael Jackson's mother says she's no longer needed to be guardian of her late son's youngest child, Blanket.
We’ve all been there.
RadarOnline.com has obtained proof that Alex Rodriguez and his assistant were emailing Lauren Hunter with travel details for a November 2016 sex date!
Selena Gomez is opening up about her on-again, off-again relationship with Justin Bieber in the new issue of InStyle, describing it as "crazy and very intense."
Can you believe it’s one year since they started dating?
Rumours are rife that Victoria Beckham and David Beckham are set to divorce.
Pop stars Katy Perry and Taylor Swift are finally ready to make nice, a source tells E! News Katy is "very relieved" and ready to "move forward." "She has been self-reflecting lately," the insider adds, "and feels it's better to clear the air than to have public
Brad Pitt and Neri Oxman aren’t dating, according to Pitt’s representative, but that hasn’t stopped gossip magazines from spinning stories about the actor and his new girlfriend.
It’s hard to know what to make of a break-up.
Gwen Stefani shuts down rumours she was 'dumped' by Blake Shelton over 'jealousy and drama' with loved-up snap.
Justin Bieber and Selena Gomez are reportedly married.
After almost three years of dating, Christina Aguilera announced her engagement to boyfriend Matt Rutler via Twitter.
Kim Kardashian’s home was the victim of a swatting call, but police say it was a false alarm!
Vanessa Lachey and Maks Chmerkovskiy have a problem.
Brad Pitt has been spotted out and about in Los Angeles for the third time in a month.
The relationship between Prince William and Prince Harry's stepmother is one that has evolved from some very dark times into something that those around them likely doubted they would ever see.
Harry Potter stars Emma Watson and Robert Pattinson are dating, according to a new report.
How do I reset my Google or Facebook password?
Actress Nicole Kidman is said to be a fan of the eight-hour diet.
It’s been a turbulent year for one of Hollywood’s most famous couples.
Britney Spears opens up about the shock of her teenage sister’s pregnancy, her new album, and future acting plans, in a new interview with OK!
Kristen Stewart and Stella Maxwell have been spotted locking lips at the Coachella music festival in California.
President Donald Trump's response to violent protests in Virginia has been met with criticism from both Republicans and Democrats.
Justin Bieber and Hailey Baldwin are wearing matching diamond watches.
Kim Kardashian’s boyfriend Kanye West is reportedly ignoring his duties as a new dad in the weeks since the couple’s daughter, Chicago West, was born.
Selena Gomez, who has died at the age of 24 after a battle with Lupus, was born and raised in Los Angeles, but it wasn't until she was a teenager that she decided to follow in her mother's footsteps and pursue a career in music.
Is Ben Affleck getting plastic surgery?
It’s not every day you get to share the stage with your girlfriend.
Katie Holmes and Jamie Foxx have reportedly split after five years together.
Justin Bieber is back on American Idol!
Justin Bieber and Selena Gomez have reportedly called off their engagement after two years together.
In case you missed it, here's a bit of Mariah Carey's crazy sister story.
It’s that time of year again.
He's already serving a 15-month sentence for bankruptcy fraud, and now RadarOnline.com has learned he has to wait nearly four years before he can see his wife.
Miley Cyrus says she "respects all artists who speak their truth and appreciate ALL genres of music."
All images subject to copyright.
It’s the perfect gift for the man of the house.
It seems like North West, 4, only got used to her little brother Saint West, 2, and now she already has another younger sibling in the family!
Simon Cowell says he has "no interest" in returning to "American Idol" when the show returns next year.
They’ve had their fair share of ups and downs, but they always seem to find their way back to each other.
Angelina Jolie and Brad Pitt are currently embroiled in a bitter custody battle over their six children.
We're told a report about Princess Eugenie feeling "frustrated" over a "lack of attention" in the media is "rubbish."
You may have heard that Kourtney Kardashian and Scott Disick are expecting their first child together.
Cult horror series Cult will return for a second season in the autumn, its creator has confirmed.
It's been almost two years since Angelina Jolie announced her split from Brad Pitt, and their divorce continues to get ugly. It's been almost two years since Angelina Jolie announced her split from Brad Pitt, and their divorce continues to get ugly.
It's all about the money!
It’s been 10 years since the release of The Twilight Saga.
When Nicole Kidman and Reese Witherspoon landed the lead roles in HBO’s Big Little Lies, the two actresses seemed inseparable.
It’s not looking good for Khloé and Tristan!
Gwen Stefani and Gavin Rossdale are expecting their third child.
Jennifer Aniston is not currently dating anyone, or at least there is no concrete proof that she is.
Kanye West has spoken for the first time about his addiction to opioids and has revealed he had plastic surgery because he was "trying to look good for y’all".
All images are copyrighted.
The Big Bang Theory is one of the most popular sitcoms on television, but recent reports have suggested that the cast members are at odds and that the drama is causing chaos behind the scenes.
Brad Falchuk is the husband of Gwyneth Paltrow.
When it comes to royals, prenuptial agreements are simply not done.
In Touch has learned that Jamie Foxx has been cheating on Katie Holmes with the mother of his daughter, Kristin Grannis.
Kim Kardashian has mocked Scott Disick’s behaviour in the aftermath of his split from Kourtney Kardashian, saying he was clearly acting out as a way of getting revenge on his ex-girlfriend.
All images are copyrighted.
As the 20th anniversary of Princess Diana’s death approaches, new details have emerged about what might have been one of the last private meetings she had with a public figure.
Blake Shelton and Gwen Stefani are no longer together.
It's one of the biggest nights in music.
Kim Kardashian’s relationship with Kanye West has been rocky ever since she was robbed in Paris and after Kanye suffered a mental breakdown.
Jennifer Aniston kept Post-Its that Brad Pitt wrote her when they were married, a source told Us Weekly.
A selection of photos from around the world this week:
Prince Harry and Meghan Markle are not moving to Malibu, despite a report.
How do I reset my Google or Facebook password?
It’s not every day you hear your ex reference you in a song.
Harrison Ford got political on Thursday night when he was awarded the Founders’ Award at Conservation International’s 30th anniversary gala.
It's not looking good for Robert Pattinson and FKA Twigs!
All images are copyrighted.
It’s a new year and a new romance!
Jennifer Garner and Josh Duhamel could be moving in together!
Fergie and the Black Eyed Peas are officially done!
"Focus" co-stars Will Smith and Margot Robbie have been linked to each other for years, but now it looks like there's no truth in the reports.
"Guardians of the Galaxy" actress Anna Faris' father has spoken out for the first time about his daughter's split from husband Chris Pratt.
Jennifer Aniston and Brad Pitt are reportedly planning a skiing holiday in Aspen.
Caitlyn Jenner's rep has denied reports the reality star is considering returning to her former gender.
Khloé Kardashian reportedly doesn’t want to announce she’s pregnant until she’s got a ring on her finger!
How do I reset my Google or Facebook password?
Matthew Rhys is best known for his performances on the television drama series "Brothers & Sisters" and "The Americans."
It’s official!
The Sisterhood of the Pants could be getting a third film, according to one of its stars.
It's been a rough few years for the Tarek El Moussa family.
Prince Harry and Meghan Markle will have two children, according to Diana, Princess of Wales.
Are Halle Berry and Keanu Reeves dating?
It’s all about the products.
Sofia Vergara and Joe Manganiello are fighting back against tabloid claims that they are splitting up.
Troy Gentry, lead singer of Montgomery Gentry, died in a helicopter crash in New Jersey just before the band was due to perform at a resort.
Brad Pitt and Angelina Jolie have announced that they are expecting their first child together.
All images are copyrighted.
It’s that time of year again.
Is she pregnant?
.
The pair fell out in 2011 when Harris was booked as the opening act for the singer’s tour but he pulled out at the last minute over issues with set production.
Prince Harry and Meghan Markle's royal wedding is finally here!
All images are copyrighted.
Valentine’s Day is just around the corner.
Tributes are pouring in for one of Hollywood’s most influential directors.
Kim Kardashian West's ex-boyfriend Tyga has been accused by the reality TV star's mother Kris Jenner of being involved in a plot to kill her daughter.
In Case You Missed It...
There's a saying in the game of rugby that if you're not good enough, you're not good enough.
It’s the year of the celebrity baby!
It’s been a long time coming, but it looks like the Carters are finally ready to settle their differences.
Pop star Jessica Simpson and Dallas Cowboys quarterback Tony Romo have called off their two-year relationship, Simpson told David Letterman on The Late Show on Tuesday night.
Jennifer Hudson’s split from fiancé David Otunga may have caused tension between her and Miley Cyrus on The Voice.
Hollywood and the music industry flocked to social media on Saturday after news broke that legendary musician Chuck Berry had died.
A selection of photos from around the world this week:
It's that time of year again.
How much do you know about the world's most famous couple?
"I address a lot of those issues in my book," the former Spice Girl told Piers Morgan on Sunday's episode of Britain's Got Talent.
Kim Kardashian and Khloé Kardashian Attend Therapy with Kourtney After Calling Her a 'Raging Bitch'
Star Mag reports that Jennifer Aniston has banned Uncle Terry Richardson from their wedding because he rubs himself the wrong way.
It’s no big deal.
A source close to Robert Pattinson has told Gossip Cop he was never invited to the royal wedding.
It's been a busy week for Taylor Swift.
Kim and Kris Jenner have been tentatively dismissed from Blac Chyna's lawsuit against the Kardashians.
A federal judge in New York has ruled that President Donald Trump’s use of the “block” button on Twitter is unconstitutional.
The Oscar-winning actress is subtly addressed on the first track of -Z‘s highly anticipated new album 4:44, which was released on June 30. The Oscar-winning actress is subtly addressed on the first track of -Z‘s highly anticipated new album 4:44, which was released on June
It’s official: Amal and George Clooney are moving back to Los Angeles!
Justin Bieber and Selena Gomez appear to have rekindled their relationship, sending fans of the pop couple into a frenzy.
BBC Sport takes a look at some of the key statistics behind the Premier League title race.
"She really admires his work and thinks he’s a fantastic actor, so she’d like to star together in a movie in the near future."
If you’re a fan of Keeping Up with the Kardashians, you’ll know they’re known for their super-secret pregnancies.
She’s one of the most famous people in the world, but some people just can’t get enough of her!
Are Halle Berry and Keanu Reeves dating?
Charlie Sheen has slammed the woman who filed a lawsuit against him over unprotected sex.
Evan Ross enjoyed a family trip with wife Ashlee Simpson and daughter Jagger at the weekend.
Beyoncé Knowles, wife of hip-hop recording artist Jay-Z, sang the national anthem at Sunday’s Super Bowl.
A selection of photos from around the world this week:
Britney Spears brought in the New Year with a bang at Dick Clark’s Rockin’ New Year’s Eve with Ryan Seacrest in Las Vegas on New Year’s Eve.
Reese Witherspoon's husband, Hollywood actor Jim Toth, has filed for divorce.
Fergie has given birth to a baby boy!
Perrie Edwards and Gigi Hadid might have the same taste in men, but it seems that’s not the only thing the pair have in common.
If you’ve ever wanted to know which British royals have secret social-media accounts, you’ve come to the right place.
If you’ve ever wondered what a diamond ring looks like, you’re in the right place.
How do I reset my Google or Facebook password?
All pictures subject to copyright.
All images are copyrighted.
It's no secret that the Kardashians are big fans of the Hadid sisters.
This site uses cookies.
The new Duchess of Sussex's decision to wear an off the shoulder dress for her first royal engagement has sparked a backlash on social media.
Dwayne Johnson and Zac Efron star in 'Baywatch.'
Taylor Swift has won the latest round in her court battle with a radio DJ.
How many children do you want?
How do you get in touch with the BBC Sport team?
How do I reset my Google or Facebook password?
Brad Pitt has a new woman in his life: Massachusetts Institute of Technology professor Neri Oxman.
Kathie Lee Gifford is celebrating her 65th birthday on Thursday!
Prince Harry’s bride-to-be Meghan Markle has been accused of having an affair with a TV presenter.
Tristan Thompson has offered to leave Khloe Kardashian's reality show if she agrees to stop spreading stories about him.
Blake Shelton BURNS Luke Bryan for Offering to Officiate His and Gwen's Potential Wedding This is why I absolutely LOVE Blake Shelton!
Have you ever wondered what it’s like to be the spitting image of your mother?
Tom Cruise's absence from daughter Suri's life has left the 12-year-old 'heartbroken', according to a new report.
She might be one of the most famous people in the world, but Selena Gomez still has a thing for needles.
Kristen Stewart has enlisted the help of her Charlie’s Angels co-star Drew Barrymore to help her find love, RadarOnline.com has learned.
Justin Bieber and Selena Gomez have reportedly called off their engagement after two years together.
It’s been a busy few days for Jennifer Aniston, who was spotted out and about in Los Angeles on Monday night.
Happy birthday Kanye West! West celebrated his 41st birthday on Saturday with friends, family, music, a mind-bending mentalist and lattes that had the foam made into an image of his face because, of course.
It’s official... Drake and Nicki Minaj are dating!
In our series of letters from African-American journalists, film-maker and columnist Sharmila Tagore looks at one of the most common false claims circulating on social media.
They’re one of Hollywood’s longest-married couples, but are they ready to call it quits?
Caitlyn Jenner is reportedly using a surrogate to give birth to her first child.
How do I reset my Google or Facebook password?
In a surprise announcement, Jennifer Aniston and Justin Theroux confirmed that they’re parting ways after two and a half years of marriage and nearly seven years together as a couple.
Brad Pitt has been spending time with Neri Oxman, an architect and professor of media arts and sciences at the MIT Media Lab, according to Page Six TV.
The Biebs and Gomez couldn't keep their hands off one another while hanging out by the pool and soaking up the sun.
"This Is Us" stars Mandy Moore and Milo Ventimiglia share their reactions to Jack Pearson's death.
The two began seeing each other in September shortly after wrapping mother!, and their relationship continued to blossom despite their 22-year age difference. The two began seeing each other in September shortly after wrapping mother!, and their relationship continued to blossom despite their 22-year age difference.
It’s official!
After two and a half years of marriage, Jennifer Aniston and Justin Theroux are calling it quits, bringing their romantic relationship to a close nearly seven years after the two first found love.
Pop star Justin Bieber has been told he can’t rent a house in Beverly Hills.
Miranda Lambert's divorce from Blake Shelton was announced in July, but the singer has been speaking out about the split ever since.
Blake Shelton clapped back at Miranda Lambert with a little help from Luke Bryan.
Ever wondered what it’s like to go to therapy?
Taylor Swift is looking for a house in England, according to a report from The Sun.
Pop star Taylor Swift opens up about the meaning of her new album, Reputation, and how she found love again.
It's been a tough few months for the Kardashian-Jenner family, with Kim and Kanye's split, Khloe's split from Tristan Thompson, Kylie's split from Travis Scott, and Kim and Kanye's split.
The Sun is the latest tabloid to run an exclusive on Brad Pitt and Neri Oxman.
"He got sexier."
Brody Jenner's relationship with his father Caitlyn Jenner hasn't always been an easy one to navigate.
It’s official.
Ellen DeGeneres and Portia de Rossi are celebrating their ninth wedding anniversary!
Jennifer Aniston and Brad Pitt are reportedly planning a skiing holiday in Aspen.
George Clooney is spending £500,000 a year on bodyguards to protect his newborn twins.
He's one of the biggest pop stars in the world right now, but did you know he's also a huge country music fan?
In the wake of her high-profile split to Brad Pitt in 2005, Jennifer Aniston said: 'What's fantastic about marriage is getting through those ebbs and flows with the same person, and looking across the room and saying, 'I'm still here, and I still love you.'
Angelina Jolie wants to take her six children to the UK while she films Maleficent 2, according to reports.
It's been a few days since Rihanna and Drake went public with their relationship, and now they're back together again.
Hollywood couple Brad Pitt and Angelina Jolie are expecting their first child, according to reports.
Tom Cruise is said to be “shocked and upset” that Katie Holmes is dating Jamie Foxx.
It's been an insane few weeks for the Kardashian-Jenner family.
Caitlyn Jenner is considering moving to Idaho.
She’s the latest member of the Kardashian-Jenner clan to become a new mother.
She may be half his age, but it looks like she's all-in on this relationship.
It’s one of TV’s longest-running morning shows, and one of its most popular presenters.
It's Teen Choice time again!
All images subject to copyright.
Sarah Jessica Parker and Matthew Broderick Net Worth: Sarah Jessica Parker is an American actress and the wife of actor Matthew Broderick.
"Jennifer Lawrence broke up Chris Pratt's marriage".
Brad Pitt and Angelina Jolie have reportedly called off their 'legal attack dogs' in a bid to save their marriage.
It seems Taylor Swift isn’t upset about Ed Sheeran admitting to hooking up with some of her friends on tour.
It’s been a long time coming.
It’s one of the most famous Twitter feuds in history.
Ariana Grande is not happy about Big Sean’s alleged affair with Nicole Scherzinger.
Cate Blanchett and Andrew Upton are back together again.
"I do think she's intrigued by the idea."
Katie Holmes has reportedly offered her condolences to Tom Cruise in the wake of his mother’s death.
It looks like the Duke and Duchess of Cambridge aren’t having any more children.
"I've never been engaged, I do believe I would."
If you're wondering if Taylor Swift and Jake Gyllenhaal are back together, you've come to the right place.
Sources close to the Kardashian-West family tell PEOPLE that Kanye West has cut off contact with his inner circle, including his managers, lawyers and closest friends.
Are you ready for a little PDA?
BBC Sport takes a look back at some of the most memorable moments from this year's Rugby World Cup.
All images are copyrighted.
Justin Bieber's split from Selena Gomez has not dampened Hailey Baldwin's enthusiasm for him.
Brad Pitt and Jennifer Lawrence are not an item, according to a source close to the actor.
Blake Griffin has been warned by his Los Angeles Clippers bosses to keep his girlfriend Kendall Jenner away from the team locker room.
Kim Kardashian and Kanye West are not faking their marriage, according to a new report.
Maria Georgas has revealed that she went through a "really dark" time and felt "ugly" prior to appearing on Joey Graziadei's season of The Bachelor.
As 2017 draws to a close, we take a look back at some of Caitlyn Jenner's most memorable family moments.
Pop star Mariah Carey, who was recently attacked for her weight at a concert in Las Vegas, has reportedly replaced her old mirrors with new “skinny” ones that make her look 20 pounds lighter.
All images are copyrighted.
All images are copyrighted.
"We got cocky and arrogant and we also became bullies."
Caitlyn Jenner is reportedly pushing Kanye West to run his own presidential campaign in 2020.
Katie Holmes and Jamie Foxx have reportedly called off their wedding after five years together.
All images are copyrighted.
A selection of photos from around the world this week:
The news that Prince Harry and Meghan Markle are expecting their first child has given the Queen ‘a lot to talk about’.
Kim Kardashian's estranged husband, Damon Thomas, has filed for divorce from the reality TV star, citing "irreconcilable differences."
From Victoria’s Secret models to body-hair activists, 25 women get real about their own body hair, whether they choose to laser everything off, or let it grow out as nature intended.
It’s been a long time coming!
It’s a girl!
President Donald Trump has broken his silence on the James Comey hearing, declaring that the nearly three hours of Senate testimony from the former FBI director on Thursday amounted to “total and complete vindication” of his actions after winning the election in November.
Is this the craziest diet you've ever heard of?
Gwen Stefani and Blake Shelton have broken up, according to a new report.
ABC Digital has issued an apology for mistakenly listing Amy Adams, Annette Bening and Tom Hanks briefly on the Oscar.com site as Oscar nominees following Tuesday morning’s Academy Awards announcement.
Northern Ireland's Deputy First Minister Martin McGuinness has said he is "appalled and disgusted" by the comments made by Labour leader Jeremy Corbyn about the IRA.
In case you missed it, here's a round-up of the week's top celebrity news stories.
It's not looking good for one of the world's most famous women right now.
"I'm guilty, regardless of how it happened and what was involved and (expletive) I can't talk about."
Jonah Hill and Emma Stone are donning some radical attire while shooting their new Netflix series, Maniac — but the former Wolf of Wall Street star’s weight loss continues to steal the show.
After months of speculation, it looks like Margot Robbie and Tom Ackerley have finally tied the knot.
RadarOnline.com has learned that Jennifer Hudson has been told that she is not welcome back on The Voice after being told that she is not welcome back!
It’s that time of year again.
Pop star Gwen Stefani has suffered a devastating miscarriage, shattering her immediate plans to have children with country star Blake Shelton.
It’s been a year and a half since Brad Pitt and Angelina Jolie announced their shock separation, but it seems he’s back on the dating scene.
A photo posted by Gigi Hadid (@gigihadid) on Sep 28, 2015 at 4:25am PDT
Hollywood couple Ben Stiller and Christine Taylor have announced they are separating after 17 years of marriage.
It's been a year and a half since they got down on one knee, but that doesn't mean they can't talk about how lucky they are to be together.
Kris Jenner reportedly gave Travis Scott a $4 million pay day after Kylie Jenner gave birth to their baby girl, Stormi Webster, according to a new report.
It’s been a year and a half since they first started seeing each other, but there’s still a lot we don’t know about their relationship.
Rihanna and Leonardo DiCaprio keep sharing birthday cake.
Paris Jackson has denied reports that she is dating three women at the same time.
A selection of photos from around the world this week:
From Priyanka Chopra to Tyler Perry, here's a look at some of Meghan Markle's most famous friends.
In the wake of Justin Bieber’s engagement to Hailey Baldwin, Selena Gomez is more than fine herself.
It's been a busy few weeks for the Duchess of Cambridge as she prepares for the birth of her tenth child.
It’s not every 20-year-old has a tattoo of a butterfly on their ankle.
Linkin Park have written an open letter to their late frontman Chester Bennington.
Will Smith addresses the constant divorce rumours he and wife Jada Pinkett Smith face in his new song.
In the wake of her high-profile split to Brad Pitt in 2005, Jennifer Aniston said: 'What's fantastic about marriage is getting through those ebbs and flows with the same person, and looking across the room and saying, 'I'm still here, and I still love you.'
Matthew McConaughey suggested in a BBC interview that it’s time to give President Donald Trump a break.
On the 27th anniversary of his brother's death, Blake Shelton pays tribute to Richie Shelton.
Chris Brown has lost his bid to overturn a restraining order he obtained against his ex-girlfriend Karrueche Tran.
Miley Cyrus fell for another prank by her fiancé Liam Hemsworth.
It’s been five years since the release of Crazy, Stupid, Love.
It's not just Calvin Harris.
As the process of developing a TV series for two of Hollywood’s biggest names began, the woman behind the project had a simple message.
Find out more about TrendolizerTM at get.trendolizer.com
It's a split you don't want to make public.
Rihanna is one of the most popular singers in the world today. Rihanna Plastic Surgery Breast Implants This is Rihanna many years back, looking young and beautiful in an interview in Berlin: Compare that to now Rihanna Talking about here relationship Status on Ellen’s Show recently: Rihanna has people talking about her breast size because the
President Donald Trump’s decision to end an Obama-era policy that protects young undocumented immigrants has been met with outrage across the country.
Justin Bieber and Selena Gomez are taking some time apart, a source tells E! News that Justin and Selena are giving each other some space right now, but are still talking all the time.
Baywatch fans rejoiced when it was announced that Alexandra Daddario and Zac Efron would be reprising their roles as Pamela Anderson and Mitch Buchannon in the next film of the series, but it turns out that the actress is not in a relationship with the actor.
How do I reset my Google or Facebook password?
Pop star Taylor Swift appeared on The View on Wednesday to promote her new album 1989.
Jamie Foxx and Katie Holmes’s secret relationship has been the subject of endless tabloid speculation since 2013.
Brad Pitt and Jennifer Aniston are back together, according to a new report in In Touch magazine.
It's been a busy week for the Kardashians!
All images are copyrighted.
Jim Carrey's rep has confirmed that the actor has not signed on to do a movie about Terence McKenna and any quotes attributed to him about experimenting with psychedelics are absolutely false.
A former Buckingham Palace worker has revealed another bizarre rule the Duchess of Sussex must follower, and well, we wouldn't last a day!
The Duchess of Sussex’s fashion sense is influencing the Royal Family.
Kelly Clarkson and Jennifer Hudson are returning to The Voice.
A selection of photos from around the world this week:
It’s one of the most talked-about couples in Hollywood.
Jennifer Garner has told estranged husband Ben Affleck to “clean up his act” or stay away from their three children, a source close to the actress has told Page Six.
Paris Hilton and Nicole Richie could return to screens in The Simple Life reboot (Picture: Fox) Paris Hilton and Nicole Richie could return to screens in The Simple Life reboot (Picture: Fox)
Justin Bieber and Selena Gomez have reportedly called off their engagement after two years together.
.
President Donald Trump is causing an uproar again this morning after a bizarre interview where he praised President Andrew Jackson and questioned the reason behind the Civil War.
Giuliani tipped his hand on that strategy Monday in an interview with CNN’s Alisyn Camerota.
The stars of the hit quiz show 'Jeopardy' are having a bit of a debate about whether or not they should be paid more to appear on the show.
The FBI is reportedly investigating an alleged blackmail attempt against comedian Kevin Hart.
A source close to Mariah Carey has told RadarOnline.com that the singer’s recent shopping spree in Los Angeles turned “embarrassing” when her credit cards were declined.
Is Kendall Jenner Dating Blake Griffin?
Travis Scott has pleaded guilty to disorderly conduct after being arrested during a concert in Arkansas in May 2017 on charges including inciting a riot, Us Weekly confirms.
Dancing with the Stars' Nancy Kerrigan is determined not to get kicked off the show, a source has told Radar Online.
It's official: Christian Bale won't be playing Batman again.
How do I reset my Google or Facebook password?
When Brad Pitt and Angelina Jolie filed for divorce last year, the actor admitted he was "a-hole" when it came to spending time with his six children.
Christina El Moussa talks about her new boyfriend, Ant Anstead.
The Duke and Duchess of Sussex are expecting twins, Kensington Palace has confirmed to Life & Style.
Kourtney Kardashian is reportedly expecting her fourth child with ex-boyfriend Younes Bendjima, according to a new report.
Taylor Swift and Tom Hiddleston have been photographed kissing in New York.
They’re one of TV’s most beloved couples, but it seemsuoco and Bialik’s relationship has taken a turn for the worse!
The Screen Actors Guild Awards take place on Sunday, January 21 at the Shrine Auditorium in Los Angeles.
How do I reset my Google or Facebook password?
The actress is expecting her first child with husband José Antonio Bastn.
It seems Julia Roberts and Danny Moder may be headed for divorce.
A selection of photos from around the world this week:
Jennifer Lopez and Alex Rodriguez are going strong, but they aren't making plans to walk down the aisle anytime soon.
If you’re like me, you’re always looking for new ways to improve your appearance.
Brad Pitt Was Alleged to be 'Volatile' On Set of 'Legends of the Fall'
Musicians mourned the loss of rock icon Tom Petty with an outpouring of tributes on social media.
Ben Affleck has hired Matt Damon to help him change his image, according to a source.
Kim Kardashian and Kanye West are expecting their fourth child, Us Weekly has learned.
In case you missed it, here’s your chance to meet Desiree O.
Ellen DeGeneres and Portia de Rossi at the General Public x RH Celebration in West Hollywood on Wednesday, June 27.
She makes it seem like they have the perfect marriage.
Amal Clooney has told George Clooney not to ride scooters with their twins, according to a report in Star magazine.
How much money do you spend on an average trip to the makeup counter?
All images are copyrighted.
When Nicole Kidman and Reese Witherspoon landed the lead roles in HBO’s Big Little Lies, the two actresses seemed inseparable.
A selection of photos from around the world this week:
The Duke and Duchess of Cambridge are expecting their third child.
Pop stars Justin Bieber and Selena Gomez have been dating for more than two years.
Anna Wintour is the editor-in-chief of Vogue magazine.
Four years from now, you’ll be able to experience Britain in a whole new way.
Brad Pitt is reportedly dismissing ex Angelina Jolie's claim that she's hurting for money as their bitter divorce battle continues.
We use cookies to ensure that we give you the best experience on our website.
BBC Sport takes a look at some of the key stories of the week.
Friends of Selena Gomez are worried she’s on a downward spiral after her split from Justin Bieber.
Robert Pattinson and James Franco walk the red carpet at IFP’s 2017 Gotham Independent Film Awards on Monday (November 27) in New York City.
Ever wondered what it's like to be in a long-term relationship? (Also, big ups to their beauty lewks in this photo.) September 12, 1999 (Image credit: Getty Images) Pitt and Aniston make their public debut as a couple on the red carpet for the Emmy Awards in
The 19-year-old daughter of Michael Jackson is "focusing on her film and model career," a source tells ET.
The Duke and Duchess of Sussex are expecting their first child, but they might not be able to throw a baby shower.
Kim Kardashian and Kanye West are reportedly drafting up a mid-nuptial agreement.
How do I reset my Google or Facebook password?
The Duchess of Cambridge is reportedly jealous of her new sister-in-law.
Angelina Jolie and Brad Pitt’s divorce is having an impact on their six children.
The Los Angeles mansion once owned by Michael Jordan has been sold.
Kim Kardashian West has "gone blonde" again to mark her fourth wedding anniversary as her husband Kanye West prefers her with blonde hair.
The Duke and Duchess of Cambridge are 'petrified' Prince Harry will marry Meghan Markle, according to GLOBE magazine.
They divorced more than a decade ago, but people are still talking about Jen's response to Brad's shock split Jennifer Aniston 'knew it was a matter of time before ex-husband Brad Pitt split from Angelina Jolie' Jennifer Aniston "knew it was a matter of time" before her ex husband
All photographs  Leonardo DiCaprio.
According to a source close to Kris Jenner, the Keeping Up with the Kardashians matriarch is furious that her friend, OJ Simpson, has been released from prison.
He's one of the most famous people in the world, so it's no surprise he's also one of the most famous men in the world.
Pop star Britney Spears is "desperate" for fiance Sam Asghari to propose, an insider has told RadarOnline.com.
The president of the United States is facing a backlash from some of Hollywood’s biggest stars.
Ellen Degeneres has 'fled' the marital home she shares with Australian starlet Portia de Rossi, setting the sage for a $400m divorce, America's National Enquirer sensationally claims, in a highly controversial report today.
Miley Cyrus' dad, Billy Ray Cyrus, has denied that his daughter has married Liam Hemsworth.
Prince Harry and Meghan Markle are expected to honeymoon on the Caribbean island of Nevis.
Katy Perry and Orlando Bloom have taken a selfie at the Vatican.
Pregnant Jessica Simpson shows off her growing baby bump on the streets of Los Angeles.
Tyga has opened up about his break up with Kylie Jenner, claiming that he is "enjoying life" after becoming single.
It’s no secret that Angelina Jolie is hell-bent on destroying Brad Pitt’s marriage, but it turns out he’s not going to let it stop him!
Ariana Grande and Pete Davidson are not calling off their engagement, according to Gossip Cop.
Sources close to the Kardashian-West family tell PEOPLE that Kanye West has cut off contact with his inner circle, including his managers, lawyers and closest friends.
The actress has parted ways with her divorce attorney Laura Wasser and will now be working with Samantha Bley DeJean.
A selection of photos from around the world this week:
Could Kylie Jenner be carrying Kim Kardashian’s third child?
How do I reset my Google or Facebook password?
It’s one of the most talked-about topics in Hollywood today.
What You Didn't See on TV at the 2024 Super Bowl and Afterparties: Taylor Swift Clubbing, Beyoncé and a Fan on the Field
It's one of music's most iconic videos, but in a new interview, Miley Cyrus has revealed she regrets filming the video to her 2013 hit song, Wrecking Ball.
Angelina Jolie is the "ego ideal" for women, according to Vanity Fair's Anita Wolf.
.
Can you believe it?
Scott Disick is "very happy" his ex Kourtney Kardashian has split from her boyfriend Younes Bendjima, E!
Kim Kardashian has shared a shocking video of herself having a panic attack.
Jennifer Aniston is reportedly moving out of her Los Angeles home and moving in with ex-husband Brad Pitt!
If you’ve been living under a rock for the past week or so, you may have come across a story that’s left you scratching your head.
All pictures subject to copyright.
It’s been almost three years since Ashton Kutcher and Mila Kunis welcomed their first child, Wyatt Isabelle Kutcher.
She’s the most nasal of the Kardashian sisters!
A selection of photos from around the world this week:
It’s been almost two months since she split from her ex-boyfriend The Weeknd (real name: Abel Tesfaye) and even though they’ve both moved on, there’s one major thing that the former couple is still fighting about... the dog that they adopted while they were still together
Check out what Selena Gomez has to say about her best friend, Jennifer Aniston, in the video above!
Jennifer Aniston and Angelina Jolie are reportedly planning a face-to-face showdown at this year’s Oscars.
Ex-husband Tom Cruise is reportedly “furious” about Katie Holmes and Jamie Foxx’s relationship and feels a sense of betrayal over it all.
Caitlyn Jenner is reportedly dating a 21-year-old college student and model named Sophia Hutchins.
How do I reset my Google or Facebook password?
Blake Shelton has made nice with Bauer Publishing, after suing the company over In Touch’s coverage of him.
If you’re a fan of divas, you’re in for a treat.
It’s been a turbulent few years for one of Hollywood’s most high-profile couples.
What do Will Smith and Jada Pinkett Smith have to say about their marriage?
Selena Gomez's ex, The Weeknd, has been dressing up as Justin Bieber for Halloween.
It’s been a long time coming.
Rosie O'Donnell's ex-wife, Michelle Rounds, was found dead in her home Monday of an apparent suicide...
Check out our picks for the best fashion buys of the week.
It's not every day you're forced to defend your marriage.
All images are copyrighted.
A selection of photos from around the world this week:
Mary Tyler Moore, the beloved television icon who rose to fame in a way throughs on The Dick Van Dyke Show and shattered the glass ceiling for women on television as the star of The Mary Tyler Moore Show died Wednesday at 80.
Rachel Lindsay has chosen Bryan Abasolo as her new Bachelorette.
Jennifer Aniston and Brad Pitt are reportedly planning a skiing holiday in Aspen.
Kim Kardashian and Kanye West have been plagued by divorce rumors for years, but they’ve defied the naysayers and held on to their marriage so far.
If you’re wondering why FKA twigs is so much better for Robert Pattinson than Kristen Stewart, we’ve got some good news for you.
Millie Bobby Brown is best known for her role as Eleven in the hit Netflix series Stranger Things.
It's not what it seems.
If you’re a business owner or entrepreneur, you’re probably already using Instagram to market your business.
Chris Soules, star of The Bachelor, has been granted permission to travel to New York City.
Beyonce has admitted that she is possessed by a spirit guide she named Sasha Fierce.
She was suspended for 10 days last year over comments she made on a podcast about the network's CO vaccine policy and former President Barack Obama's racial identity.
Some of Kendall Jenner’s wisest, most matter-of-fact moments.
Friends of Jamie Foxx’s girlfriend Katie Holmes think she’s too straitlaced for him, a source tells Life & Style.
Selena Gomez’s friend Francia Raisa is opening up about the "depression" the pair suffered after she donated her kidney to the 25-year-old pop star as part of her treatment for lupus.
Caitlyn Jenner: her confrontation with the Kardashians about pay per view TV special, her lonely Mother’s day, and her new date: Know all that here!
Is American Idol in trouble?
A look at this week's TV highlights.
In Touch has learned that Kourtney Kardashian isn’t happy about her teenage girlfriend dressing like her!
Kim Kardashian has been sent into a tail spin over her husband Kanye West's bizarre meltdown on a TMZ live stream - and is concerned about what it means for her reputation. Trouble never seems far away from the Kardashian klan - and sure enough, yet another crisis has struck Kim and Kanye Kim Kardashian sent into
The Duke and Duchess of Cambridge were spotted having a tense argument over whether or not to expand their family.
How do I reset my Google or Facebook password?
"Brad did not go to rehab," the source told ET on Wednesday, a few hours after Radar Online published an article claiming the Allied star was "secretly getting help" for "his issues."
Justin Theroux has been spotted in New York with a mystery brunette (picture: The Mega Agency)
Vampire Diaries star Ian Somerhalder and his wife Nikki Reed are expecting their first child together.
Blac Chyna says Kim Kardashian and Kanye West deserve blessings for having a baby girl.
All images are copyrighted.
The Kardashians are celebrating 10 years on Keeping Up With the Kardashians with a special 10th anniversary episode.
Pop star Justin Bieber has been filmed apparently failing to help a man who was struck by his car.
It’s one of the most anticipated pregnancies of the year.
Angelina Jolie is reportedly jealous that Brad Pitt may be seeing Jennifer Aniston again, a source close to the actress tells HollywoodLife.com.
The Duchess of Cambridge recently admitted that she often feels isolated as a young mother to her two children, Prince George and Princess Charlotte.
Justin Bieber and Hailey Baldwin are engaged, but what does Selena Gomez think about it?
She’s one of the world’s highest-paid pop stars.
Caitlyn Jenner and O.J. Simpson?
How do I reset my Google or Facebook password?
She was suspended for 10 days last year over comments she made on a podcast about the network's CO vaccine policy and former President Barack Obama's racial identity.
Kourtney Kardashian is reportedly expecting her fourth child with ex-boyfriend Younes Bendjima, according to a new report.
Taylor Swift is looking for a house in England, according to a report from The Sun.
.
A selection of photos from around the world this week:
Jessica Simpson had a "very exciting" announcement to make on The Ellen DeGeneres Show Monday, and it wasn't something anyone expected.
Jennifer Aniston is pregnant with her first child, a source has told New Idea.
Find out more about TrendolizerTM at get.trendolizer.com
In the wake of Brad Pitt and Angelina Jolie's divorce announcement, Jennifer Aniston has gone about her business as usual, joining husband Justin Theroux in New York for the premiere of his latest film, The Girl on the Train.
All images are copyrighted.
Celebrities have been performing at rallies across the US in support of gun control following last month's school shooting in Florida.
She’s just made her Broadway debut in Cabaret.
Ellen DeGeneres and Portia de Rossi are reportedly going through therapy in an effort to save their marriage.
"Karma" is a word that is often used to describe things that are not meant to be.
In the absence of one Donald Trump, who hosted a rally for himself in Michigan in lieu of attending the White House Correspondents’ Dinner Saturday night, the MC and comedian Michelle Wolf declined to, as they say, take any prisoners.
Jay-Z may be one of the world’s most famous entertainers, but it seems he’s also one of the world’s most reptilian.
Jennifer Lopez has been dropping some serious hints about wanting to get engaged, as of late.
Jennifer Aniston and Brad Pitt are reportedly planning a skiing holiday in Aspen.
In the wake of Megyn Kelly’s sexual harassment scandal, Seacrest has had the full support of his colleagues.
It’s one of the most-talked-about movies of 2017.
It’s no secret that Nina Dobrev has been single since splitting from Ian Somerhalder in 2013.
We're told it's "not true" that Adele is "freaking out" because she's alone in Los Angeles while her crew is snowed in out east.
It’s that time of year again.
Selena Gomez’s family are worried that she’s getting too obsessed with losing weight!
A selection of photos from around the world this week:
He’s best known for roles in “Broad City,” “Spider-Man: Homecoming,” and “Baywatch.”
How did Channing Tatum and Jenna Dewan end their marriage?
Nick Jonas shows off his ripped biceps in a white t-shirt!
He’s one of Hollywood’s biggest action movie stars, but would you believe he’s also a huge Jennifer Garner fan?
Lady Gaga appeared to be channeling Madonna as she stepped out in Paris with platinum hair yesterday.
How do you keep your marriage going for 20 years?
How do I reset my Google or Facebook password?
After three years of dating, Rebecca Romijn and Jerry O'Connell exchanged vows during a romantic outdoor wedding at their home outside Los Angeles.
How do I reset my Google or Facebook password?
How do you keep your marriage going for 12 years?
All images are copyrighted.
Amal Clooney’s composure stood in contrast to the anxiety of the professional entertainers who came to fte George at the June 6 A.F.I. Life Achievement Award gala.
Jennifer Lopez and Alex Rodriguez may be one of the most recognisable stars in the world, but Alex Rodriguez had to do a double take during their first encounter before becoming one of Hollywood’s A-list couples.
They may have called it quits earlier this month, but it turns out their marriage wasn’t all about splitting up.
It's that time of year again, when conspiracy theories abound.
Olivia Munn says having sex with boyfriend Aaron Rodgers is off the table on game day.
Angelina Jolie opened up about her split from Brad Pitt for the first time in an interview with Vanity Fair, in which she revealed she's "figured out what I'm going to do with the rest of my life."
Jamie Foxx has spoken out about his relationship with Katie Holmes.
The news that Prince Harry and Meghan Markle are expecting their first child has given the Queen ‘a lot to talk about’.
In our series of letters from African-American journalists, film-maker and columnist The Irish Rose reflects on her dislike of royal weddings.
Friends, forever?
Kristen Stewart and Stella Maxwell are still together, despite a false tabloid report.
The war of words between Terry Crews and Dylan Howard has escalated.
Is Sienna Miller and Brad Pitt dating?
Tristan Thompson is “remorseful” about cheating on Khloe Kardashian, sources have told Us Weekly.
'The Voice' coaches Adam Levine, Christina Aguilera, Cee Lo Green, Will.i.am and Pharrell Williams have been talking about the new season of the talent show.
All images are copyrighted.
Beyonce is one of my all-time favourite singers.
Brad Pitt and Jennifer Aniston have called time on their marriage, but are they going to get back together?
It’s that time of year again: the Emmy nominations.
It's that time of year again - turkey day!
The battle between the contestants on the current season of The Voice is nothing compared to the explosive war between longtime country coach Blake Shelton and newbie judge Kelly Clarkson!
How do I reset my Google or Facebook password?
Caitlyn Jenner’s recent love life has been the talk of the town.
It’s been a roller-coaster ride of a year.
Caitlyn Jenner is spending at least $50,000 a week on her new girlfriend Sophia Hutchins, RadarOnline.com has learned.
From Alex Rodriguez's appearance on The Ellen DeGeneres Show, it's apparent he is confident of two things regarding his relationship with Jennifer Lopez: the day they met is "the luckiest day of (his) life" and if you have her love, you better pick up the phone.
HollywoodLife.com has learned that Gwen Stefani and Blake Shelton are expecting their first child together!
How much money do The Voice judges get paid?
Kim Kardashian West and Kanye West were spotted dining at Nobu in Malibu, where they were joined by a group of friends.
Are Lady Gaga and Christian Carino engaged?
Kim Kardashian and Kourtney Kardashian reportedly demanded that the other children at a pottery workshop not attend so North and Penelope could have it all to themselves.
Caitlyn Jenner says she’s “very politically involved” in the Trump administration.
Billy Bush will not be returning to the small screen as the host of Fox’s news magazine show Top 30.
Brad Pitt and Angelina Jolie have reportedly called off their 'legal attack dogs' in a bid to save their marriage.
Jennifer Aniston and Justin Theroux have called it quits on their marriage after more than two years of marriage.
It's sisters against sisters!
It's been a year and a half since Justin Bieber and Selena Gomez rekindled their romance, but it looks like it's time to move on.
Gwen Stefani’s team is fighting back against reports the singer’s Las Vegas residency is bombing at the box office.
Brad Pitt has asked Jennifer Aniston to marry him, according to a new report.
Do you want to know more about Katie Holmes and Jamie Foxx?
Brad Pitt and Jennifer Aniston have been friends for a while and often text each other.
We Should Listen to Palestinians, Not Selena Gomez (Or Other Cele...
The Duchess of Cambridge's marriage to Prince Harry is causing a rift in the Royal Family, with Camilla, the Duchess of Cornwall reportedly trying to steal some of Kate's staff.
A look back at some of the best and worst TV moments over the past year.
How much do you know about Armie Hammer?
Love Is Blind's Jimmy Defends Telling Chelsea He Does Not Want Sex Jimmy Presnell chats exclusively to E! News about his controversial moments from season six of 'Love Is Blind' and if he'd ever return to the show again!
It wasn’t meant to be.
All images are copyrighted.
New York Yankees star Alex Rodriguez is taking over Michael Strahan's seat on Good Morning America, RadarOnline.com has learned.
It’s been a year since Brad Pitt and Angelina Jolie filed for divorce, so you might think the actress has moved on?
It's all good.
A Hollywood actress is reportedly helping a young woman adopt her first child.
Beyonce has hit back at internet trolls who called her "fat" while she is pregnant.
It’s all happening under the radar!
Director Ol Parker talks about how Richard Curtis, the screenwriter and director of the original, played a part in pushing him towards the job, Lily James’ full commitment to the part and the famous sequel he was inspired by.
Rob Kardashian and Blac Chyna’s war of words may be coming to an end.
The Weeknd Is Jealous Of Selena Gomez’ New Co-Star, British Hottie Jude Law Source: Getty There’s already trouble in paradise for Selena Gomez and The Weeknd, and a surprising someone is getting in the way!
.
It’s not looking good for Kylie Jenner and Travis Scott.
Drake wins 13 Billboard Music Awards, beating Adele’s record of 12.
Katie Holmes has finally gone public with Jamie Foxx after a rumoured romance that became an open secret in Hollywood.
It’s been a busy week for Oprah Winfrey.
Transgender people will be banned from serving in the US military "indefinitely" under a new White House policy.
She's one of the most famous people in the world and now she's got an engagement ring on her finger!
It's been a busy week for the Kardashians.
Gwyneth Paltrow is reportedly furious with a new website launched by one of her former Goop co-founders.
A selection of photos from around the world this week:
Taylor Swift and Joe Alwyn have been dating for a few months now and it looks like they're ready to get married!
Here is a comprehensive list of Brad Pitt's girlfriends, wives, and romantic experiences.
Kim Kardashian West’s mother, Kris Jenner, is reportedly furious with her daughter for meeting with the president.
Will Smith addresses the constant divorce rumours he and wife Jada Pinkett Smith face in his new song.
It's one of the biggest nights in music.
Just one year ago Mel B and Stephen Belafonte are all smiles on the red carpet Just one year ago Mel B and Stephen Belafonte are all smiles on the red carpet
The creator of the cult TV series "Twin Peaks" has called on the president to "turn the ship" and unite the country.
Elizabeth Banks is an American actress, producer and director who has a net worth of $50 million.
How do I reset my Google or Facebook password?
Selena Gomez's reaction to Justin Bieber's engagement to Hailey Baldwin will probably make you love her even more than you already do, if that's possible.
All pictures subject to copyright.
Is Kylie Jenner in labour?
Céline Dion and Pepe Muoz are reportedly dating.
Rihanna Shares Photos from Her Visit to the Lorraine Motel: 'Can't Describe the Feeling That Came over Me'
Taylor Swift premiered the video for “Look What You Made Me Do” Sunday night at MTV’s Video Music Awards and it was a lot to take in.
Are you ready to become a mother?
Ever since the death of Carrie Fisher last year, fans have been speculating about what role the actress might play in the next Star Wars movie.
Kim Kardashian and Kylie Jenner are fighting over who gets to name their newborn daughter Love!
Sandra Bullock says she doesn’t think she’ll ever get married again!
Brad Pitt and Jennifer Aniston are set to tie the knot in a small ceremony in Brad’s home town of St Louis, Missouri, New Idea has learned.
It's not easy being a supermodel.
Did Kourtney Kardashian and Younes Bendjima just get married during their vacation in Rome?
A selection of photos from around the world this week:
Actor, producer, and host Mark Consuelos continues to captivate global audiences with transformative performances spanning television, film and theatre while constantly seeking new and compelling narratives to develop.
Angelina Jolie still holds a grudge against Margot Robbie, a source tells In Touch.
Find out more about TrendolizerTM at get.trendolizer.com
It’s the summer of music.
Miranda Lambert and Anderson East have reportedly called it quits after two years together.
It's been a tough few months for the Hollywood A-listers, with Brad Pitt's divorce and the birth of twins.
It seems Maksim Chmerkovskiy and Peta Murgatroyd's marriage is in trouble!
A selection of photos from around the world this week:
Charlie Sheen has settled a lawsuit he filed against the National Enquirer over the publication’s report that the former “Two and a Half Men” star sodomized a then-13-year-old Corey Haim while the pair were filming the 1986 film “Lucas.”
She's the daughter of the late King of Pop, Michael Jackson.
On the 27th anniversary of his brother's death, Blake Shelton pays tribute to Richie Shelton.
The Duke and Duchess of Sussex are expecting twins, Kensington Palace has confirmed to Life & Style.
She’s one of Hollywood’s most famous actresses, a mother of two and a married woman.
Prince Harry and Meghan Markle's relationship may be one of the most talked-about in the British royal family, but it turns out the couple did not attend one of their closest family weddings.
Prince Harry and Meghan Markle are reportedly planning to start a family "as soon as she can."
Many women use hormonal birth control methods to treat medical conditions "People are feeling deeply unsettled," one doctor says.
Caitlyn Jenner is reportedly secretly spending $50,000 a week on her girlfriend, Sophia Hutchins.
Chris Pratt and his wife, Anna Faris, star in the new film Guardians of the Galaxy, which opens this week.
Rihanna, Heidi Klum, and Amy Robach are just some of the celebrities who have been reacting to Hurricane Irma.
Prince Harry and Meghan Markle have finally found their dream home in Malibu, California.
It’s official: Miley Cyrus and Liam Hemsworth are officially married.
Doin’ what is best for her.
Country stud Blake Shelton is converting to Catholicism to marry Gwen Stefani!
Aaron Rodgers is reportedly moving on from his controversial relationship with actress Olivia Munn with soccer star Marie Margolius.
It’s not over yet.
Gwen Stefani and Blake Shelton look like they’re having a grand ole time on a beach in Mexico on Monday with friends.
Brad Pitt’s mother is reportedly hopeful that her son will get back together with ex-wife Jennifer Aniston.
It looks like George Clooney’s wife might be pregnant again.
Comedian Kevin Hart is said to be on "permanent curfew" given by his wife Eniko Parrish and he willingly signed up for it when he got her back.
It's official.
It's no secret that Kendall Jenner and Anwar Hadid have a crush on each other.
Selena Gomez and The Weeknd's breakup was reported in October 2017 after nearly 10 months of dating.
Jennifer Aniston's marriage to Justin Theroux is 'all but over', according to Life & Style.
Ariana Grande and Pete Davidson’s romance may be taking off, but it seems that some fans are not so sure.
What's the worst thing you can do to Victoria Beckham?
A selection of photos from around the world this week:
Dates for the 91st, 92nd and 93rd Oscars presentations are set for February 24, 2020, and February 28, 2021, respectively.
The actress took to Twitter to share that no one was hurt in the robbery.
We’re used to seeing stars like Tom Holland, Sienna Miller and Robert Pattinson bond on-screen.
'Avatar: The Last Airbender' is out on DVD and Blu-ray this week.
The Duchess of Sussex's father has spoken out for the first time since his daughter's wedding.
Is Kylie Jenner pregnant with Travis Scott's baby?
She may not have won the Oscar, but there's shortage of blockbuster roles for actress Ruth Negga, who is next set to star alongside Hollywood A-lister Brad Pitt.
Blake Shelton and Gwen Stefani are taking aim at the constant tabloid rumors claiming that they’re having children.
There's no truth to this story.
Social media users are mourning the end of one of Hollywood’s most celebrated love stories, but many can’t forget the complicated origin of Brangelina’s epic love affair.
The first teaser trailer for Julia Roberts’ new Amazon series, “Homecoming,” has been released.
It's official.
Kendall Jenner is "overwhelmed" by her relationship with Blake Griffin, a source has told Radar Online.
Katie Holmes and Jamie Foxx rumours have been rumbling around for well over a year now. A US magazine claimed Tom Cruise's ex was around four months pregnant with Foxx's baby Katie Holmes isn't pregnant with Jamie Foxx's baby and there's no wedding Katie Holmes and Jamie Foxx rumours have been
If you’re wondering who Rihanna’s most famous ex-boyfriends are, you’ve come to the right place!
Happy Mother's Day, Mums!
Brad Pitt and Angelina Jolie have reportedly come to an agreement over the custody of their children.
Brad Pitt has claimed that he has contributed more than $1.3 million in bills for Angelina Jolie and their six children.
Check out Kourtney Kardashian's reaction to her sisters' recent fight on Keeping Up With the Kardashians.
Judy Garland will be portrayed by Renee Zellweger in a new film.
Miley Cyrus breaks bread with Liam Hemsworth in Toluca Lake, California.
Kendall Jenner feels "insecure" about 16-year-old Kaia Gerber, according to an insider.
Photos: Paris Jackson, Trevor Donovan
'The Voice' coaches Adam Levine, Christina Aguilera, Cee Lo Green, Will.i.am and Pharrell Williams have been talking about the new season of the talent show.
The Duchess of Cambridge's choice of outfit for the royal wedding ceremony has caused a stir on social media.
A former prison guard told the newsmagazine that Simpson likes Keeping Up with the Kardashians.
I don’t know about you, but I don’t think I’ve ever seen a woman quite like Nicole Kidman.
A tabloid story claiming Angelina Jolie dropped out of a cameo role in the upcoming Tomb Raider reboot because she’s jealous about Alicia Vikander being cast as Lara Croft is bogus.
Susan Bro, the mother of the woman killed when a car slammed into a crowd of counter-protesters following the “Unite the Right” rally in Charlottesville, appears on the “The Ellen DeGeneres Show” Thursday at 3 p.m.
It's not every day you get to meet your future mother-in-law, but that's exactly what Prince Harry and Meghan Markle have done.
It’s official: The Duke and Duchess of Sussex are planning a tour of the United States next year.
Former FBI director James Comey is testifying before the Senate Intelligence Committee about his interactions with President Donald Trump.
'Tom's moving to Florida to build up his membership in the Church of Scientology,' a source tells OK!
Bette Midler and David Hyde Pierce return to the Broadway revival of Hello, Dolly!
It's that time of year again.
A former football star and a former talk show host are joining the crowded field of morning TV hosts.
Gwyneth Paltrow and Brad Falchuk’s rehearsal dinner!
All images subject to copyright.
Caitlyn Jenner is reportedly helping Kanye West deal with his recent social media meltdown.
Good Will Hunting is one of Hollywood's longest and most fascinating friendships.
Alec Baldwin has announced he will be suspending posting on his personal Twitter account following strong backlash to previous comments he made about Harvey Weinstein’s harassment allegations and the culture of paying women for silence.
Kim Kardashian West is fed up with her sister's "loud chaos"!
It's not every day that you're accused of starving yourself for your wedding.
If you’re a fan of The Bachelor, you’re in for a treat this summer.
Anne Hathaway has been spotted out and about in Beverly Hills earlier this week with what appeared to be a baby bump.
All images subject to copyright.
"When I was going through my divorce, and just, hit rock bottom just like anybody does when they go through something that devastating, it's a miracle that I met somebody that was going through the same exact thing that I was at the exact same moment in time."
All images are copyrighted.
Britney Spears and Sam Asghari may have secretly married, according to OK!
Julia Roberts is returning to the small screen for a psychological thriller called Homecoming.
Brad Pitt and Angelina Jolie have filed for divorce.
It's been a busy few weeks for Selena Gomez and The Weeknd, who have been spotted out together a number of times over the past few weeks.
Jennifer Aniston's ex Justin Theroux is said to be "warning" her to "fight fair" when it comes to spilling dirt on their nasty split - or "he’ll have no hesitation whipping out the ‘tell-all’ card that would spell utter humiliation."
A selection of photos from around the world this week:
He plays Jack Pearson’s son, Kevin, on This Is Us, but Justin Hartley doesn’t call his This Is Us co-stars a bromance!
Chris Pratt says he and Anna Faris are doing better after their divorce.
It’s Valentine’s Day!
It’s one of the more bizarre parenting stories we’ve heard in a while.
Brad Pitt's rep has denied reports that the actor is dating Australian supermodel Elle Macpherson.
Lady Gaga and Christian Carino are reportedly planning an "over-the-top affair" in Italy this summer.
Tristan Thompson is reportedly forcing Khloe Kardashian to follow a strict diet while she is pregnant.
Best Actor: Casey Affleck for “Manchester by the Sea”
President Donald Trump made a series of false statements in an interview with the Wall Street Journal last week.
Robert Pattinson and Charlie Hunnam may be two of Hollywood’s most famous actors, but it seems they’re not the best of friends!
The Duke and Duchess of Sussex are expecting twins, Kensington Palace has confirmed to Life & Style.
There’s a feud brewing behind-the-scenes on the Season 2 set of the HBO series, Big Little Lies, and it’s between two much-adored actresses.
Is Ben Affleck cheating on his wife, Jennifer Garner, with a blonde?
All pictures subject to copyright.
Victoria’s Secret has dropped Kendall Jenner from this year’s line-up.
It’s all change in Hollywood.
It’s no secret that Beyoncé and Jay Z have had their fair share of ups and downs over the years.
"Truth is always the answer."
"America's Got Talent" judge Mel B says she's seeking treatment for post-traumatic stress disorder.
United Airlines CEO Oscar Munoz has apologised after a passenger was forcibly removed from an overbooked flight.
Robert Pattinson and FKA Twigs are reportedly expecting their first child.
It’s all change in the Kardashian family.
Derek Hough says his sister Julianne’s wedding to NHL star Brooks Laich was “beyond anything I could have imagined.”
In the wake of Matt Lauer‘s shocking termination from NBC News amid allegations of allegedly inappropriate sexual behavior, the disgraced newsman and wife Annette Roque are no longer wearing their wedding rings.
You don’t have to be a sports broadcaster to have a bit of a problem with social media.
A selection of photos from around the world this week:
As Khloé Kardashian reels from news of Tristan Thompson’s cheating scandal, In Touch has uncovered exclusive new details about another betrayal.
Nicki Minaj is not surprised Drake may have a secret love child.
Brad Pitt and Jennifer Aniston might reunite at the Toronto Film Festival.
Scott Disick and Sofia Richie are no longer together.
Khloé Kardashian says having a baby won’t mend her estranged relationship with Caitlyn Jenner.
Julianne Hough and Brooks Laich tied the knot on July 8 at Lake Coeur d'Alene, Idaho, surrounded by more than 200 family and friends. Photographed by Sarah Falugo Julianne Hough and Brooks Laich tied the knot on July 8 at Lake Coeur d'Alene, Idaho, surrounded by more than 200
Jennifer Aniston has been left humiliated by Justin Theroux’s relationship with Emma Stone, a source has told New Idea.
It’s official!
As Miley Cyrus prepares to release a new album, she explains why she decided to quit smoking weed.
Kylie Jenner's pregnancy has "helped her bond" with Kourtney Kardashian.
"I want my kids to know there is no shame in getting help when you need it, and to be a source of strength for anyone out there who needs help but is afraid to take the first step."
David Schwimmer fears his estranged wife will take their daughter to England.
It’s called friendship.
Kourtney Kardashian’s ex Scott Disick has doubts about whether he’s the father of her youngest child, Reign, a source tells In Touch.
Ed Sheeran says the feud between Taylor Swift and Katy Perry is overblown.
HollywoodLife.com has the scoop on how Angelina Jolie is making sure her six children have a spooktacular Halloween this year!
It’s one of the most talked-about celebrity splits of all time.
It’s official: Miranda Kerr and Evan Spiegel are engaged.
Pop star Britney Spears is reportedly trying to get her boyfriend to propose to her.
When it comes to royals, prenuptial agreements are simply not done.
Terence Crawford vs Errol Spence Jr Odds: SportsBetting.ag gives edge to Crawford
Jennifer Aniston is determined not to repeat the mistakes of her ex-husband Angelina Jolie.
Jennifer Lopez hired a private investigator to track down her boyfriend, Alex Rodriguez, a source reveals in the new issue of Us Weekly.
It’s not easy being a member of the Kardashian-Jenner clan.
A selection of photos from around the world this week:
It looks like Kylie Jenner and Travis Scott may be getting married.
It’s no secret that Lionel Richie doesn’t approve of Sofia Richie’s relationship with Scott Disick, but it turns out he’s not the only one!
Brad Pitt and Angelina Jolie are reportedly planning a showdown at this year’s Oscars.
Katy Perry says she loves Taylor Swift as a songwriter.
I have an app for that and it's extremely handy.
Actress Chlo Grace Moretz says she was “appalled” by the film’s body-shaming advertisement.
If you’re looking for a new place to live with your six children, then you’ve come to the right place.
Caitlyn Jenner and Andreja Pejic?
Gwen Stefani and Blake Shelton’s on-set romance has fans threatening to turn off The Voice.
Rachel Lindsay and Bryan Abasolo say they’re working with ABC to plan a televised wedding special.
It’s one of WWE’s biggest couples, but it’s also one of its biggest problems.
A selection of photos from around the world this week:
Jennifer Garner confronted Ben Affleck‘s girlfriend Lindsay Shookus in person after she found out about their affair in 2015, sources tell PEOPLE.
There’s a feud brewing behind-the-scenes on the Season 2 set of the HBO series, Big Little Lies, and it’s between two much-adored actresses.
Ellen DeGeneres and Portia de Rossi did not get into a fight over food, despite a National Enquirer report to the contrary.
The former Spice Girl says she is seeking treatment for post-traumatic stress disorder.
This Is Us creator Dan Fogelman was getting ready to brush his teeth while listening to the nominations on his wife's cell phone when he learned of his show's multiple mentions. Dan Fogelman Image Credit: Jason LaVeris/FilmMagic This Is Us creator Dan Fogelman was getting ready
A selection of photos from around the world this week:
Kim Kardashian is taking her obsession with plastic surgery to the next level, a pal tells RadarOnline.com.
It’s been more than a month since the cast of The Exes gathered for the filming of their season finale, but RadarOnline.com has learned that the episode was so intense that it lasted all day. An insider told RadarOnline.com that the drama was so intense that the taping lasted “all
Jennifer Aniston has been keeping quiet about reports she’s pregnant with her first child.
Drake and Odell Beckham Jr.
It’s been a busy year for the Kardashian-Jenner clan.
A selection of photos from around the world this week:
All images are copyrighted.
Prince Harry is reportedly looking to move in with his girlfriend, Meghan Markle, in Canada.
A selection of photos from around the world this week:
It's not easy being a mother.
Princess Beatrice and Princess Eugenie are reportedly furious with Prince Harry’s fiancée, according to a new report.
A selection of photos from around the world this week:
Anthony Scaramucci was fired from his job as White House communications director just two weeks ago, but it looks like he might have found love again!
A selection of photos from around the world this week:
We are America’s largest digital and print publisher.
Kanye West has been leaning on Caitlyn Jenner in lieu of a parental figure in his life.
Keeping Up With The Kardashians star Khloe Kardashian has been spotted out and about without her usual skin-tight clothing, sparking more pregnancy rumours.
As Ben Affleck checked into rehab for the third time after his estranged wife, Jennifer Garner, staged an intervention, the actor's ex-girlfriend has also ended her relationship with the star.
The 88th Academy Awards will take place at the Dolby Theatre in Los Angeles, USA, on Sunday, March 10, 2024.
A source close to Justin Bieber tells HollywoodLife.com that The Weeknd’s new song is “petty, weak and makes him look bitter.”
If you’re a fan of a satirical news show, then you’re in for a treat this weekend.
Check out the full list of winners below.
Could Tom Cruise finally reach out to his daughter, Suri?
"They're totally inseparable and people are beginning to wonder if it's the real deal."
David Beckham pokes fun at himself as he appears with Sir David Jason and Nicholas Lyndhurst in the laugh-out-loud funny clip New Only Fools and Horses video
After six years together, Katie Holmes and Jamie Foxx have called it quits.
Jamie Foxx and Katie Holmes’s secret relationship has been the subject of endless tabloid speculation since 2013.
I don’t know about you, but I’ve never heard of a tabloid calling it in.
Miranda Lambert and Gwen Stefani’s feud over Blake Shelton is reportedly over!
It’s been a turbulent few weeks for the Kardashian-Jenner family.
Gwyneth Paltrow The one that got away.
Tarek El Moussa Allegedly Goes Off on Ex, Christina, on 'Flip or Flop' Set
Iggy Azalea is being sued by American Express over $300,000 in unpaid credit card bills.
It's that time of year again!
As Kanye West focuses on his music after a series of explosive tweets and interviews, Kim Kardashian admits she didn’t realize just how deeply her ordeal being held at gunpoint during the 2016 Paris robbery affected her husband.
Lamar Odom and Tiffany Haddish are reportedly seeing each other.
Christina Milian and Karru Tran are not more than friends, despite a tabloid’s claim to the contrary.
Rose McGowan's Twitter account was suspended overnight, temporarily muting a central figure in the allegations against Harvey Weinstein.
Jennifer Aniston fled to the Sunset Tower hotel on Thursday night after a construction worker died just feet from her Bel Air home. Jennifer Aniston fled to the Sunset Tower hotel on Thursday night after a construction worker died just feet from her Bel Air home, RadarOnline.com can exclusively reveal.
It seems Julia Roberts and Danny Moder may be headed for divorce.
All of the "American Reunion" actors have returned for the $50 million Universal sequel.
Brad Pitt, designer.
They were each other’s first real love and he still misses her.
Miley Cyrus and Liam Hemsworth have big plans to do the trendy secret wedding thing sometime in the near or far future—tomorrow, maybe, or a year from now! Miley Cyrus and Liam Hemsworth have big plans to do the trendy secret wedding thing sometime in the near or far future—tomorrow, maybe,
Kate Hudson's boyfriend Danny Fujikawa has been 'dumped' just days before she is due to give birth...
The Academy Awards paid tribute to film industry giants such as Carrie Fisher, Debbie Reynolds, John Hurt, Gene Wilder and Mary Tyler Moore, but several names were left out of the segment.
A selection of photos from around the world this week:
Blake Shelton and Gwen Stefani weren’t always so sure their romance was built to stand the test of time.
Caitlyn Jenner is reportedly planning to tie the knot in an intimate ceremony Caitlyn Jenner 'to marry transgender student 47 years her junior' as it's revealed she 'hasn't met' Khloe and Kim's babies
Drake wants to settle down with a wife and have kids one day, but he’s not forcing anything, a source tells HollywoodLife.com.
"I'm not attached to this 'life' so you can't touch me."
Is Leonardo DiCaprio sleeping with the wrong woman?
Brad Pitt has claimed that he has contributed more than $1.3 million in bills for Angelina Jolie and their six children.
Drake and Blac Chyna may be one of the most famous couples in showbiz, but are they actually dating?
Country star Faith Hill is preparing for a life-threatening battle with throat cancer, a source has told RadarOnline.
The Real Housewives of New Jersey star Teresa Giudice has spoken out about the speculation that she's getting a divorce after posting a picture of herself with a divorce lawyer on Instagram.
Could Pippa Middleton and Meghan Markle be avoiding each other ahead of the royal wedding?
It wasn’t meant to be.
Jennifer Lopez has filed for divorce from Ben Affleck.
Are Selena Gomez and Justin Bieber friends again?
"We are a family and we will always be a family."
All images subject to copyright.
It's all about the baby!
Twilight fans rejoiced when Robert Pattinson and Kristen Stewart were spotted together at Johnny Depp’s birthday party.
Harry Styles is a member of the boy band One Direction.
Angelina Jolie and divorce attorney Laura Wasser have gone their separate ways, PEOPLE exclusively confirms.
Kristen Stewart dyed her hair red for the Breaking Dawn Part 1 premiere, but how do you do it at home?
A selection of photos from around the world this week:
Chris Brown and Karrueche Tran have been having problems for a while now but things really went sour last month because he thinks she is not being loyal.
Kendall Jenner's Instagram comment about Scott Disick and his girlfriend, Sofia Richie, is causing a bit of a stir on social media.
Jennifer Lawrence and David O Russell have been photographed together in New York City, but are they a couple?
Did you know that Beyoncé and Kim Kardashian share the same doctor?
Ryan Gosling discusses the death of his dog, George, during an appearance on The Ellen DeGeneres Show.
The Jewish New Year, Rosh Hashanah, is just around the corner, and many celebrities are wishing the Jewish community a happy new year.
Justin Timberlake has taken to Twitter to wish his wife Jessica Biel a happy birthday.
Is there a magic pill that makes you into a genius?
Bradley Cooper and Lady Gaga in a scene from "A Star Is Born."
Kourtney Kardashian’s ex Scott Disick has doubts about whether he’s the father of her youngest child, Reign, a source tells In Touch.
Ellen DeGeneres and Portia de Rossi are officially at their breaking point, and divorce is officially inevitable.
Are you ready for a little Selena?
How much do you know about the world's most famous couple?
Jennifer Lopez, Victoria Beckham and, um, Simon Fuller.
The first episode of Caitlyn Jenner’s docuseries, I Am Cait, airs on E!
Rihanna’s fans are debating whether or not the singer is pregnant with her first child.
It’s one of the biggest stories in Hollywood right now.
A selection of photos from around the world this week:
Nicole Kidman is reportedly expecting her first child with her husband Keith Urban.
Brad Pitt and Margot Robbie are reportedly in love!
It's official: Khloé Kardashian and Tristan Thompson's relationship is over.
Kris Jenner has reportedly called OJ Simpson to ask him to take a DNA test to prove he is Khloe Kardashian’s biological father.
Nick Jonas and Priyanka Chopra are reportedly dating.
Tzvi Fishman, the Israeli writer and director of the Oscar-winning film, The Descendants, has announced that he will be making a new musical movie about the ancient Jewish heroine, Queen Esther.
Angelina Jolie filed for divorce from Brad Pitt on Monday, citing irreconcilable differences.
All images subject to copyright.
Prince Harry and Meghan Markle were forced to work hard for their peace and quiet, but when the eyes of the world turned to the prince and his potential bride-to-be, the couple was forced to work hard for their peace and quiet.
It's official!
Actor Charlie Sheen says he has had HIV for four years and has never missed a dose of medication.
Caitlyn Jenner has been spotted sporting hearing aids, sparking fears the transgender star may be heading toward another transition — deafness, but thankfully, the former Olympian has new girlfriend Sophia Hutchins as a shoulder to lean on.
After two months apart, Robert Pattinson and Kristen Stewart are back together!
Jamie Foxx and Katie Holmes have managed to keep their relationship pretty quiet for a Hollywood couple.
Jordan Feldstein, manager of Maroon 5 and brother of actor Jonah Hill, has died at the age of 40.
Sarah Jessica Parker and Matthew Broderick Net Worth: Sarah Jessica Parker is an American actress and the wife of actor Matthew Broderick.
It's been a year since Caitlyn Jenner came out as transgender.
In the wake of yet another mass shooting, celebrities are speaking out against gun violence.
Brad Pitt’s daughter Shiloh has developed a special bond with Pitt’s wife, Jennifer Aniston.
See Pippa Middleton’s best Wimbledon looks.
When Jay-Z took the stage at Toyota Center in Houston on Wednesday night, he looked like he was ready to go.
Miley Cyrus and Jennifer Hudson have already had it out!
It seems like everyone is hoping Khloé Kardashian will eventually dump her cheating baby daddy Tristan Thompson, and that includes brother-in-law Kanye West!
For months now, Taylor Swift has been working hard to keep her life private.
It’s official: Jennifer Lopez and Alex Rodriguez are engaged!
Miranda Lambert's new album The Weight of These Wings has been nominated for album of the year at this year's Country Music Association Awards.
Perrie Edwards and Gigi Hadid might have the same taste in men, but it seems that’s not the only thing the pair have in common.
Jennifer Lawrence and Nicholas Hoult have reportedly been spending ‘an awful lot of time together’, which probably explains why they’ve reportedly been spending ‘an awful lot of time together’ while Jen has been in the UK.
It's official!
"We did absolutely nothing for our anniversary."
One of the rules Meghan apparently can't get her head around is the Queen's preference that women should wear skirts or dresses instead of trousers One of the rules Meghan apparently can't get her head around is the Queen's preference that women should wear skirts or dresses instead of trousers
Katie Holmes and Jamie Foxx are getting married, sources tell Life & Style.
Kim Kardashian and Kanye West are pulling out all the stops to keep their family safe after the reality star's shocking Paris robbery.
Keeping Up With the Kardashians momager Kris Jenner is reportedly worried about the future of the reality TV show as one of the show’s producers is moving to New York.
Younes Bendjima is not happy with headlines suggesting he’s rebounding with another woman in Mexico after reports about his split with Kourtney Kardashian emerged.
Check out these Selena Gomez hairstyles that we are dying to recreate.
Here is a full list of winners at this year's Kids' Choice Awards.
Prince Harry and Meghan Markle's future home could be Kensington Palace, according to the Queen's annual grant report.
Ellen DeGeneres' marriage to Portia de Rossi is reportedly on the rocks, according to a new report.
In our series of letters from African-American journalists, filmmaker and columnist S.B.
.
It’s no secret that Jennifer Lopez and Alex Rodriguez are madly in love, but it turns out they’re also planning on having more babies!
Margot Robbie is one of Hollywood’s biggest stars, and recently opened up about married life with husband Tom Ackerley.
Blake Shelton and Gwen Stefani are no longer together.
The Keeping Up with the Kardashians star and her Cleveland Cavaliers basketball player boyfriend are reportedly back together.
Keeping Up with the Kardashians star Caitlyn Jenner, 35, is "gung-ho" about having a baby with her boyfriend Corey Gamble, according to a source.
A selection of photos from around the world this week:
It’s not every day you get to share the stage with your girlfriend.
All images are copyrighted.
How do I reset my Google or Facebook password?
Kourtney Kardashian was "on the verge of a mental breakdown" as her relationship with Scott Disick came to an end.
Miley Cyrus and Liam Hemsworth are said to be calling off their engagement again.
It’s been a month since Matt Lauer was fired from the Today show, and his former longtime colleague, Katie Couric, is now opening up about the former NBC anchor’s shocking dismissal.
Jennifer Aniston and Justin Theroux have split after two and a half years of marriage.
Justin Bieber and Selena Gomez have been dating for almost a year now and it looks like they are ready to get married.
We're taking a look back at Selena's evolution from cute Disney kid to smokin' hot Hollywood star, scroll through to see the memorable moments.
Justin Bieber is one of the biggest pop stars in the world.
Angelina Jolie took a few of her kids to see the reboot of Tomb Raider last week.
All images subject to copyright.
It’s that time of year again!
Julia Roberts and Danny Moder are celebrating 16 years of marriage in July, and Us Weekly has the inside scoop!
What do consumers really want from a perfume?
Patti LuPone on Glenn Close, ‘Sunset Boulevard’ Actress Patti LuPone talks about going to court against Andrew Lloyd Webber regarding losing her role to Glenn Close in “Sunset Boulevard” and Andy Cohen asks about her and Glenn’s relationship now.
It’s almost time for America’s Next Top Model to announce its 24th season cast.
Andy Cohen asks Boy George if he still keeps in touch with Caitlyn Jenner after meeting her and Boy George says where to watch them both together in the near future.
All images are copyrighted.
A selection of photos from around the world this week:
After months of rumours, it’s finally official: Jennifer Aniston and Brad Pitt have got married.
Jay-Z’s new album, 4:44, has been met with mixed reviews.
In a new interview with The New York Times, the rapper revealed that he had a "real conversation" about the possibility of a divorce over controversial remarks he made during an appearance on TMZ Live.
All images are copyrighted.
Brad Pitt and Jennifer Aniston are reportedly considering giving their relationship another chance.
Justin Bieber and Selena Gomez's break becoming a permanent breakup may be sinking in for the Biebs, or so People's new report suggests. The reality of Justin Bieber and Selena Gomez's break becoming a permanent breakup may be sinking in for the Biebs, or so People's new report suggests
A selection of photos from around the world this week:
Pop star Mariah Carey and her dancer boyfriend, Bryan Tanaka, are not getting back together, according to a new report.
How do I reset my Google or Facebook password?
It’s been a tough week for one of Hollywood’s most famous couples!
One Direction’s Harry Styles helped The Late Late Show host James Corden welcome a new baby girl on Tuesday night.
Is Justin Bieber battling hair loss?
Who will win the Wimbledon women’s singles final on Saturday?
All images are copyrighted.
He’s one of the world’s biggest pop stars, but what does it feel like to be an average guy?
Jennifer Aniston isn't bitter about her lack of Oscar nomination for her role in Cake saying "it's almost just as good to be number one snubbed than to be nominated."
It's that time of year again.
How do I reset my Google or Facebook password?
It's no secret that The Weeknd is a big fan of Bella Hadid.
Tiger Woods has been arrested on a charge of driving under the influence.
You're engaged, right?
Rachel Weisz and Darren Aronofsky have announced that they are engaged to be married.
Brad Pitt and Jennifer Aniston's romance ended in divorce in 2005.
Ben Affleck and Lindsay Shookus could be getting married this summer!
In her cover story for the magazine’s December 9 issue, she opened up for the first time about her amicable split from The Weeknd and reigniting her on-off relationship with Justin Bieber.
It’s hard to believe it’s been more than a decade since Bennifer first hit the big screen.
Angelina Jolie takes children to Renaissance Pleasure Fair in California; Despite the report she was not “miserable” at the fair.
Diana, Princess of Wales, will be the focus of the next two seasons of The Crown.
A reality TV star is reportedly being offered half a million dollars to star in a special about her husband being deported.
A selection of photos from around the world this week:
Brad Pitt and Angelina Jolie engaged in 'heated, screaming fights' over how to raise their six children, a source reveals to Us Weekly.
It's no secret that Justin Bieber and Selena Gomez are no longer in love, but it turns out they don't follow each other on Instagram.
Kendra Wilkinson may be pregnant again!
A selection of photos from around the world this week:
Miley Cyrus and Liam Hemsworth are reportedly expecting their first child...
How do I reset my Google or Facebook password?
"I kind of liked it."
Jennifer Lopez and Alex Rodriguez are taking their romance on the road.
It’s not true.
"I'm not sure, I'm past it, but at the time I was hurt about it."
Brad Pitt has asked Jennifer Aniston to marry him, according to a new report.
On this week’s episode of The Bachelorette, Becca meets Garrett’s family for the first time and Jason reveals his feelings for her.
BBC Sport is now available as a web app on Apple and Android devices.
It’s time for the 2017 American Music Awards!
How did Jennifer Aniston and Justin Theroux try to salvage their romance?
Taylor Swift has reportedly reacted to news of her ex-boyfriend Tom Hiddleston’s recent win at the 2017 Golden Globe Awards.
Two years after Brad Pitt and Angelina Jolie announced they were splitting up, a judge has reportedly declared both Pitt and Jolie to be legally single.
Pop star Lady Gaga has been accused on social media of having had plastic surgery.
It's five years since Britney Spears and Jason Alexander got married.
Chris Brown and Soulja Boy got into a feud on social media on Monday, January 2, over Brown’s ex-girlfriend Karrueche Tran.
How do I reset my Google or Facebook password?
A group of photographers spotted Brad Pitt and Sienna Miller out and about in Los Angeles on Monday night.
Miley Cyrus and Liam Hemsworth are said to be calling off their engagement again.
All images are copyrighted.
Eric Johnson is an American football player who has a net worth of $10 million.
He's one of the world's biggest pop stars, but it turns out Justin Bieber knows how to sing!
Justin Bieber's fans are convinced the 23-year-old has been abiding by a "Love Bible" he wrote while rekindling his romance with ex, Selena Gomez, and reports even claim the "Sorry" singer has "10 Commandments" for their "revived relationship."
It’s that time of year again.
Country singer Keith Urban is reportedly upset about his wife Nicole Kidman’s sex scenes in the TV series Big Little Lies.
Jennifer Aniston, Brad Pitt news that does come with evidence, it would seem that the “Friends” actress likes to model his look after whoever he is currently dating.
The rekindled romance between Selena Gomez and Justin Bieber has been put on pause, multiple sources exclusively tell Us Weekly.
It’s been a busy week for the Duke and Duchess of Cambridge.
How do I reset my Google or Facebook password?
Ellen DeGeneres: actress, television host, LGBT activist, philanthropist, and... cantankerous host of a Hollywood high-stakes underground poker game? But celebrity gossip website Radar Online reports that the host of the popular “Ellen” show is a “mean” host of an exclusive celebrity card game and often “lose
Miley Cyrus and Liam Hemsworth have reportedly called off their engagement for the second time.
It's one of the most talked-about couples in country music right now.
A selection of photos from around the world this week:
"I feel like I'm constantly fighting against my exterior, or this exterior presentation of myself because of who I'm with."
It’s been a pretty turbulent few weeks for the Kardashian-Jenner family, and now it looks like there may be a silver lining.
If you’re wondering what’s going on in the world of Justin Theroux and Jennifer Aniston then you’ve come to the right place.
Gwen Stefani and Gavin Rossdale are planning to adopt, according to the National Enquirer.
From Jenny Packham to Balmain, see what everyone wore to the Hollywood Film Awards...
,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,
Kate Middleton is said to be “less than pleased” that her husband has been filmed partying with friends during a boys-only skiing trip.
Jennifer Aniston has been keeping quiet about her split from Justin Theroux.
It’s been a roller coaster of a year.
Two years after Brad Pitt and Angelina Jolie announced they were splitting up, a judge has reportedly declared both Pitt and Jolie to be legally single.
Rihanna is reportedly spending hundreds of thousands of dollars on new clothes after gaining weight.
.
Hollywood actor Bradley Cooper and his girlfriend Irina Shayk have become parents.
Britney Spears has denied reports that she is planning a secret Las Vegas wedding with her boyfriend, Charlie Ebersol.
It's official: David and Victoria Beckham aren't splitting up.
A selection of photos from around the world this week:
Personal trainers at 24 Hour Fitness work with members to help them achieve their fitness goals.
It’s official.
A former bodyguard claims that Jennifer Aniston is known for wearing as little as possible whenever possible.
The Keeping Up with the Kardashians star has been seen wearing what looks to be a huge diamond engagement-like ring on her hand, in photos first obtained by TMZ.
Kim Kardashian's tweet about Kylie Jenner's Forbes cover shows that she's the farthest from jealous someone could get: she's proud. People on Twitter started pitting the sisters against each other over their money, but Kim Kardashian's tweet about Kylie Jenner's Forbes cover shows that she's
Hollywood actress Liv Tyler is pregnant with her fourth child.
As she celebrates her 37th birthday this weekend, here's what Meghan has said on some of the most important things in her life - in her own words.
All images are copyrighted.
Kourtney Kardashian is reportedly expecting her fourth child with ex-boyfriend Younes Bendjima, according to a new report.
It's that time of year again.
Todd Stefani Gwen Stefani Gwen Stefani Gwen Stefani Gwen Stefani Gwen Stefani Gwen Stefani Gwen Stefani Gwen Stefani Gwen Stefani Gwen Stefani Gwen Stefani Gwen Stefani Gwen Stefani Gwen Stefani Gwen Stefani Gwen Stefani Gwen Stefani Gwen Stefani Gwen Stefani Gwen Stefani Gwen Stefani Gwen Stefani Gwen Stefani Gwen Stefani Gwen Stefani Gwen Stefani Gwen Stefani Gwen Stefani Gwen Stefani Gwen Stefani
Amber Rose is reminding her Rosebuds that she's still single!
"Donna Karan, in the wake of the disturbing allegations about famed movie producer Harvey Weinstein allegedly harassing several women, used the power of her voice to attack women."
The Duke and Duchess of Cambridge joke about having more babies.
George Clooney is not begging Kit Harington to hang out with him, despite a National Enquirer report.
The Duke and Duchess of Cambridge are expecting twins, according to a report in Life & Style.
Pop star Britney Spears is reportedly engaged to her boyfriend Sam Asghari, Us Weekly has learned.
Gwen Stefani and Blake Shelton have been forced to put on a show while appearing on The Voice, a source tells Life & Style.
Kim Kardashian will be co-hosting Kelly Ripa’s talk show this week.
Pop star Lady Gaga and actor Taylor Kinney have split after five years together, Us Weekly can confirm.
A look back at some of the young stars who have raised eyebrows during their transition from tween star to young adult, causing their own dad to describe them as "on a downward spiral."
BBC Sport takes a look back at some of the most memorable moments from this year's Rugby World Cup.
Kim Kardasian and Kanye West are getting ready for the arrival of their third child (Picture: Coleman-Rayner)
How do I reset my Google or Facebook password?
Is Kendall Jenner pregnant?
Caitlyn Jenner has told Piers Morgan that she no longer talks to the Kardashians.
Anna Faris says she's "not saying it's a good reason, but it is a small benefit of having that label of being married."
Kim Kardashian isn’t too happy about Kendall Jenner and Jordan Clarkson’s relationship, according to a new report.
Brad Pitt has spoken out for the first time since his split from Angelina Jolie.
It's that time of year again when you can show your dad how much you care.
Kanye West has revealed that his new album Yeezus will be released later this year.
Kim Kardashian and Kourtney Kardashian will be at each other’s throats in the new season of Keeping Up with the Kardashians.
How do I reset my Google or Facebook password?
It's that time of year again.
It’s been a turbulent few months for one of Hollywood’s most famous couples.
It’s been three years since Kourtney Kardashian and Scott Disick parted ways, but no matter how much time passes, he will always be considered a part of her family.
Taylor Swift is celebrating her 28th birthday today, and she's not the only one celebrating!
It’s no secret that Angelina Jolie and Brad Pitt’s children are Ange’s number one priority.
All images subject to copyright.
Jennifer Aniston and Justin Theroux have called it quits on their marriage after more than two years of marriage.
It's one of the most beloved sitcoms of all time.
A source close to Brad Pitt has told RadarOnline.com that his new girlfriend, Neri Oxman, would not date him if he was drinking or using.
A selection of photos from around the world this week:
Meghan Markle's nephew tells of his anger and shame at a bitter family rift that has erupted over the aunt he adores.
Taylor Swift and Conor Kennedy reportedly dated for three months in 2012 before splitting amid unconfirmed reports of the Kennedy family disapproving of the singer.
Blake Shelton and Gwen Stefani are taking aim at the constant tabloid rumors claiming that they’re having children.
Pop star Katy Perry reveals she suffered bouts of situational depression due to public reaction to the release of her latest album, Witness, while Tyga feels heartbroken over Kylie Jenner’s latest GQ cover.
The actress has parted ways with her divorce attorney Laura Wasser and will now be working with Samantha Bley DeJean.
All images are copyrighted.
Kim Kardashian West's assistant Stephanie Shepherd has quit the reality TV star's show, according to a source.
Sarah Jessica Parker and Matthew Broderick Net Worth: Sarah Jessica Parker is an American actress and the wife of actor Matthew Broderick.
John Mayer has been bombarding Katy Perry with calls and flowers in a bid to win her back, a source tells HollywoodLife.com.
Pop star Janet Jackson called the police on her estranged husband on Saturday night, according to reports.
Bradley Cooper's latest film, A Star Is Born, opens in cinemas on Friday.
Betty White is planning to quit TV acting at 95 to check items off her bucket list!
Jennifer Aniston is reportedly back on the dating scene with two different beaus, per Us Weekly, and her friends are having trouble not talking about it.
Jennifer Aniston and Justin Theroux's relationship is 'getting nasty', according to a new report.
Jennifer Lopez’s boyfriend Alex Rodriguez has been cheating on her for months, a source tells In Touch.
Justin Bieber isn’t too fond of The Weeknd’s new track, which seems to suggest that he almost donated his own kidney to Selena Gomez, 25, when she need one the most.
We Should Listen to Palestinians, Not Selena Gomez (Or Other Cele...
George Clooney has been a supporter of Barack Obama for years.
All images are copyrighted.
Blake Shelton and Gwen Stefani reportedly got married in a secret ceremony earlier this year.
A selection of photos from around the world this week:
Kim Kardashian and Kanye West are reportedly expecting their fourth child by the end of the year.
Fergie breaks down in tears while talking about her split from Josh Duhamel.
All images subject to copyright.
It may be time to finally start mourning Justin Bieber and Selena Gomez‘s era-defining romance.
James Hewitt, Princess Diana’s former lover, has confirmed that Prince Harry is his son.
It’s that time of year again when we’re all trying to figure out who we’re in love with.
As Nicole Kidman and Keith Urban celebrate their 16th wedding anniversary, the couple have been sharing their secrets on social media.
Angelina Jolie's close relationship with the Duchess of Cornwall is said to be part of a plot by Camilla, Duchess of Cornwall to 'ruin a few feathers' in the royal family.
It’s one of those relationships that’s tough to wrap your head around, and not just because of the massive age gap.
Twilight star Kristen Stewart has denied cheating on Victoria's Secret model Stella Maxwell with her ex-girlfriend, Alicia Cargile.
Prince Harry and Meghan Markle have been dating since 2016, and most of the relationship was formed over a long distance. So now that they've made things official and are about to get married, it's fair to wonder if Prince Harry and Meghan Markle are living together now or if royal protocol has kept them under
How do I reset my Google or Facebook password?
Brad Pitt is not a smelly drifter, according to a report from Gossip Cop.
Do you want to know what it's like to go through a divorce?
Meet Normani, who was diagnosed with breast cancer at the age of 12.
Robert Pattinson and FKA twigs have been spotted having dinner together in Los Angeles.
Lindsay Lohan has been spotted wearing a headscarf once again at the London Modest Fashion Week, conforming to the event's theme - which showcased the latest styles in hijabs, abayas and long hemlines.
All images subject to copyright.
Bachelor star Nick Viall may have thought he was “living his nightmare” with Liz (the one-night stand he booted on Monday night’s episode), but things are about to get even more nightmarish as Life & Style recently reported that the reality star is having a baby with a woman that’s not
With a net worth of $200 million, Sandra Bullock is one of the highest paid actresses in Hollywood.
A Spanish magazine has caused outrage by depicting the first lady as a slave.
Selena Gomez showed up to the American Music Awards red carpet saying, "New look, who dis?"
It's official: She's pregnant.
After two years of dating and welcoming their first child together, Kylie Jenner and Travis Scott split in October 2019.
The jury in Bill Cosby’s sexual assault trial voted 10-2 to convict him on two counts of aggravated indecent assault, but two people on the panel continued to hold out, leading to a deadlocked jury and a mistrial.
There's a lot going on in Taylor Swift's new single, "Look What You Made Me Do."
Jenna Dewan has spoken out about her split from Channing Tatum.
If you've ever wondered whether or not Robert Pattinson would be open to reprising his role as Edward Cullen, you're in luck.
New Today show co-anchor Hoda Kotb is reportedly involved in a feud with co-host Kathie Lee Gifford.
All images are copyrighted.
It’s not every day that you hear about a former Melrose Place star joining the cast of a reality TV show.
"I've never had a problem with drinking."
"Karma" is a word that is often used to describe things that are not meant to be.
Pop star Jennifer Lopez won’t marry Alex Rodriguez unless he follows her ultra-strict pre-wedding rules, RadarOnline.com has learned...
It’s all about the dance!
Addy Miller is best known for her roles in the TV series "Mad Men" and the film "Limitless".
What is Ben Affleck and Jennifer Garner?
Kim Kardashian West's sister Kris Jenner and her boyfriend Corey Gamble have been spotted out and about in Monaco, RadarOnline.com has learned.
In her first lengthy sit-down magazine interview in more than a year, Caitlyn Jenner speaks to Variety about her conscious choice to focus, unheralded, on being a behind-the-scenes advocate for transgender rights on Capitol Hill.
It's official.
"I am not pregnant."
As tens of thousands of people around the world join the People's Climate March, celebrities, politicians, and activists express their support on Twitter.
Khloe Kardashian and Tristan Thompson have been having relationship issues ever since the NBA star was busted cheating on the Keeping Up with the Kardashians star back in April.
It’s official: Liam Payne is leaving One Direction.
It's not every day you get to spend the holidays apart, right?
A selection of photos from around the world this week:
Kylie Jenner has shared the first snaps of baby Stormi with her boyfriend Travis Scott.
A source has told RadarOnline.com that Tom Cruise’s personal trainer, TomKat, has helped the Mission: Impossible star with his terminal cancer.
Tom Cruise is “shocked and upset” that his ex-wife Katie Holmes is dating Jamie Foxx, a source tells HollywoodLife.com.
A Rolling Stone profile of Johnny Depp compares his current, debauched existence to Elvis’s last, drug- days.
Ryan Gosling and Eva Mendes’ relationship is reportedly on the rocks, according to a report from Radar Online.
Katie Holmes was spotted looking at an Irish wedding venue, where she stayed overnight, triggering speculation she may even be contemplating tying the knot with Jamie Foxx. Katie Holmes was recently forced to deny rumors of tension between herself and boyfriend Jamie Foxx, and this weekend the Hollywood star was spotted looking at an Irish wedding venue,
It’s been nearly five years since Tom Cruise and Katie Holmes announced their split.
It’s been a year and a half since the world first learned that Kylie Jenner was pregnant with her first child with Travis Scott.
Kim Kardashian West supports her sister Khloe Kardashian’s decision not to reconcile with Caitlyn Jenner during her pregnancy, according to a new report.
We’re sitting in the living room of Angelina Jolie’s Los Angeles home, surrounded by the six children she shares with ex-husband Brad Pitt.
A selection of photos from around the world this week:
Kim Kardashian is reportedly planning to divorce Kanye West because of his 'unpredictable' behaviour.
Brad Pitt is being investigated for possible child abuse, according to reports from TMZ and People.com.
Here are 22 of Justin Bieber’s best apologies.
It’s no secret that Fergie and Josh Duhamel are no longer together.
Pop stars Selena Gomez and Justin Bieber's on-again, off-again relationship is making headlines once again, after the pop stars were spotted together on a recent breakfast-and-church date.
Taylor Swift Terrified Her Comeback Means A Breakup With Boyfriend Joe Alwyn Source: Getty
After years of rarely being seen together, the two were photographed September 4 striding down a Malibu beach hand-in-hand and splashing in the Pacific Ocean surf.
Tributes are pouring in for one of country music’s most influential artists.
As Pitch Perfect 3 hits cinema screens this weekend, we caught up with one of the film's stars to find out what it's like to be the new kid on the block.
Did you hear the one about the secret wedding?
It's official!
How do I reset my Google or Facebook password?
The Real Housewives of New Jersey star has denied reports that she and husband Joe are planning to divorce after she posted an Instagram photo with a divorce attorney.
Australian Bachelorette Sophie Monk has reportedly turned to country star Keith Urban to help her find love.
Kelly Osbourne on addiction: 'People need to know rehab doesn't fix you'
Google’s co-founder Sergey Brin and the company’s chief executive, Anne Wojcicki, are two of Silicon Valley’s most intriguing young couples.
It looks like Bindi Irwin is getting engaged!
We are America’s largest digital and print publisher.
From overcoming hard times together to collaborating on romantic duets, they constantly prove that they are the ultimate #CoupleGoals.
How do I reset my Google or Facebook password?
A selection of photos from around the world this week:
It's no secret that Caitlyn and Sophia are close friends.
Jennifer Aniston wants to open a wellness centre.
Prince Louis met his great-grandmother for the first time on Tuesday.
Do you think it is time for Adam Levine and Blake Shelton to take a break from The Voice?
Eddie Cibrian was once one of Hollywood's most sought-after actors.
Pop superstar Taylor Swift will have plenty of room to Shake It Off while in Manchester for her huge stadium gigs this weekend - after booking out an city centre hotel for the week.
A selection of photos from around the world this week:
It's been a year and a half since two of the most talked-about royals in the world became sisters-in-law.
Prince Harry’s girlfriend Meghan Markle has a romantic past, according to a new report.
All images are copyrighted.
Check out our selection of some of the best games from this year's E3!
It’s been a year and a half since Brad Pitt and Angelina Jolie announced their shock separation, but it seems he’s back on the dating scene.
It's that time of year again.
Pop singer Gwen Stefani could end up deaf and wreck her fabulous singing career by performing too soon after rupturing her eardrum, say experts.
If you’ve ever wanted to know what it was like to be a police officer in Los Angeles in the 1970s, you’ve come to the right place.
Queen Elizabeth II is 'in love' with Meghan Markle, according to a new report.
If you’ve ever wanted to meet Justin Bieber and Selena Gomez, then you’ve come to the right place.
Check it out!
All photographs  Justin Bieber.
Brad Pitt is "suspicious" of Angelina Jolie's humanitarian work, according to a source.
The country music world is reacting to the death of Mel Tillis, who passed away Sunday (Nov.
It's official: the Brangelina divorce is over.
Country music star Blake Shelton is reportedly no longer bothered by false reports about his relationship with Gwen Stefani.
Kim Kardashian shares adorable video of Saint and Chicago revealing their incredible sibling bond Kim Kardashian shares adorable video of Saint and Chicago revealing their incredible sibling bond
It's all about the food.
It sounds like a rom-com!
When Katie Holmes and Jamie Foxx first started seeing each other, it wasn't a big deal.
Ben Affleck’s girlfriend Lindsay Shookus reportedly threatened to break up with him if he didn’t stop spending time with his ex-wife Jennifer Garner.
Kim Kardashian West may be one of the most famous women in the world, but there's one thing she may not be famous for... Ribs!
She’s known for her creative paparazzi-avoidance tactics, like walking backward or going to the gym in 2017 looks like.
The Hollywood stars have previously spoken about the madness in their household Inside the 'chaos' of Brad Pitt and Angelina Jolie's parenting of their six children with knives, tempers and no school
Is this the new Jessica Simpson?
Bless Joe Alwyn for teaching Taylor Swift the value of keeping her personal life private, Us Weekly enthusiastically reports, because her happiness these days is unparalleled! Bless Joe Alwyn for teaching Taylor Swift the value of keeping her personal life private, Us Weekly enthusiastically reports, because her happiness these days is unparalleled!
Brad Pitt is disputing Angelina Jolie’s claims that he has not paid “meaningful” child support.
As Beyoncé prepares for her world tour, we take a look at some of the lesser-known facts about the superstar.
It was all about the family at Kylie Jenner’s 21st birthday party.
While Angelina Jolie was filming First They Killed My Father in Cambodia with her kids in tow, Brad Pitt was taking trips whenever he could to spend time with their children.
A selection of photos from around the world this week:
A Texas plastic surgeon says he's already performed extensive work on "several" women who wanted to look more like President Trump's elder daughter.
We’re used to seeing Meghan Markle on our TV screens as paralegal Rachel Zane inSuits.
Katie Holmes has denied reports that she was set to pay $20,000 to have her teeth fixed.
Britney Spears was an abstract, an idea.
Take a look at what celebrities are saying about Donald Trump's tweet about Morning Joe hosts Mika Brzezinski and Joe Scarborough...
Gwen Stefani explains why she’s embracing her feminine side.
Alan Nierob, Bruce Jenner’s publicist and long-time friend, helped Jenner at a moment of crisis when a reporter for the New York Times was pursuing a story about Jenner being a cross-dresser.
Kanye West is reportedly helping his wife hire a publicist.
All images subject to copyright.
Kim Kardashian West's ex-boyfriend Tyga has been accused by the reality TV star's mother Kris Jenner of being involved in a plot to kill her daughter.
Bradley Cooper and his fiancée Shayk are expecting their first child together.
Brad Pitt is celibate, Angelina Jolie sees his children less than she did before, and George Clooney is trying to reunite Brad and Jennifer Aniston.
Robert Pattinson is going all out to land a part in Quentin Tarantino’s upcoming Charles Manson themed movie, all because of his monster crush on Margot Robbie!
In the wake of a series of sexual assault allegations against singer-songwriter Lizzo, we take a look back at her career.
It’s all about the sex!
All images are copyrighted.
A new report claims that Kristen Stewart and Robert Pattinson are planning to reunite for a new movie.
Eric Johnson is an American football player who has a net worth of $10 million.
She's a fighter!
It's been almost a week since Prince Harry and Meghan Markle's royal romance premiered on Lifetime, and we can't stop talking about it. "Peter Pan can't stay in Neverland forever." Kate Middleton dressed down Prince Harry for his wild, partying lifestyle early in the film, using one of
The Kardashian-Jenners have signed a new three-year deal with E!
Jenna Bush Hager says she’s “deeply sorry” for calling Pharrell the wrong film at the Golden Globes.
President Donald Trump tried to strike an upbeat tone Tuesday night for his first State of the Union address, but he still drew strong reactions from celebrities on Twitter.
Paris Jackson has ditched her dying mom to shack up with Marlon Brando's granddaughter and other pals in a hideaway high in the California hills, all while her mother Debbie Rowe battles cancer.
How do I reset my Google or Facebook password?
Another love affair has ended for Halle Berry!
The couple has rarely been spotted out together in public, but now they’re reportedly getting ready to take their love to the next step. The elusive couple has rarely been spotted out together in public, but now they’re reportedly getting ready to take their love to the next step.
Katy Perry and Orlando Bloom are not married, according to a rep for the couple.
Kendall and Kylie Jenner have been spending a lot of time together over the past few months, but there are reports that the sisters are no longer close.
A selection of photos from around the world this week:
The 88th Academy Awards took place at the Dolby Theatre in Los Angeles on Sunday night.
The Duke and Duchess of Sussex are planning to spend their honeymoon at the Fairmont Jasper Park Lodge in Alberta, Canada.
It’s official: The Duke and Duchess of Cambridge are expecting twins, Kensington Palace has confirmed.
Jennifer Aniston and Brad Pitt are reportedly planning a skiing holiday in Aspen.
One of Princess Diana's most iconic outfits is going up for auction.
Meet Laura Adkins, the 25-year-old who’s gone and done what every teenager on the face of this planet has wanted to do for ages...
What do you do if a film’s sex scenes are so bad that audiences laugh so hard at them?
Justin Bieber doesn’t owe Selena Gomez anything when she turns 26.
It’s been more than four years since Justin Bieber and Selena Gomez first started seeing each other.
In the wake of Jennifer Aniston and Justin Theroux's separation, here are 10 things you might not have known about the former couple.
Lindsay Lohan is pregnant!
New mother Blac Chyna has been showing off her post-baby body in revealing outfits.
Margot Robbie is one of the highest-paid actresses in the world, and she is considered one of the best-dressed celebrities of the modern era. Robbie has worked with Chanel extensively, and she eventually became the face of their fragrance "Chanel Gabrielle Essence." Many publications have complimented Robbie's sense of fashion
The day after the New York Times revealed that Jennifer Lopez and Alex Rodriguez had been seeing each other for 12 years, the couple sat down for an interview with the paper’s entertainment editor, Leah Goldsmith-Thomas.
Seven months after women began coming forward with stories alleging sexual misconduct by Hollywood producer Harvey Weinstein, the former movie mogul has been arraigned on charges of rape and committing a criminal sexual act in the first degree.
It’s no secret that Angelina Jolie and Brad Pitt’s children are Ange’s number one priority.
The day after the New York Times revealed that Jennifer Lopez and Alex Rodriguez had been seeing each other for 12 years, the couple sat down for an interview with the paper’s entertainment editor, Leah Goldsmith-Thomas.
Jennifer Aniston and Brad Pitt are reportedly planning a skiing holiday in Aspen.
Prince Harry and Meghan Markle have enlisted the help of a nutritionist to help them prepare for the birth of their first child.
Roger Moore, the second actor to play James Bond on the big screen, died Tuesday at the age of 89. Roger Moore, the second actor to play James Bond on the big screen, died Tuesday at the age of 89.
Tom Cruise is not secretly dating anyone, according to a new report.
It’s no secret that Justin Bieber and Selena Gomez are in love.
It's official: Princess Charlotte, Prince George, and Prince Louis are definitely getting at least one new cousin this year!
Katie Holmes’ boyfriend Jamie Foxx was just caught partying with A-lister beauty Eva Longoria, RadarOnline.com has learned!
How do I reset my Google or Facebook password?
Is this the love of her life?
It’s been a busy year for the Kardashian-Jenner clan.
The Queen is reportedly "fuming" over fake rumours that the Duke of Edinburgh has died.
Heidi Klum and Vito Schnabel have broken up after dating for three years, Us Weekly can confirm, and the art dealer is sharing his heartbreak on Instagram.
"Relationships are hard," says Sex and the City star Sarah Jessica Parker.
Selena Gomez is said to have ended her relationship with Justin Bieber because he is seeing other women!
Brad Pitt and Jennifer Aniston are reportedly back together, according to a new report.
Gwyneth Paltrow is shutting down Amber Rose‘s claim that she is the alleged mistress whom Beyoncé references in her Lemonade track, “Sorry.”
All pictures are copyrighted.
Bella Hadid has responded to an Instagram user who called her and Kendall Jenner "fake bitches."
The Weeknd and Ava Van Rose?
Twilight star Kristen Stewart’s relationship with Victoria Secret model Stella Maxwell is reportedly getting more serious with each passing day.
Brad Pitt’s children allegedly locked him out during a recent visit to Paris for Angelina Jolie and their six children.
Brad Pitt and Jennifer Aniston are reportedly getting back together thanks to George Clooney.
It's no secret: Gwen Stefani is a huge fan of Blake Shelton.
Beyoncé and Jay Z have welcomed twins, according to Roger Friedman’s ShowBiz 411.
How do I reset my Google or Facebook password?
Kendall Jenner and Diplo have been spotted spending time together at Coachella.
HollywoodLife.com has learned that Gwen Stefani and Blake Shelton are expecting their first child together!
She’s one of the most famous women in the world, but what do you think about her veins?
"I woke up every morning wondering, 'Did this really happen?'"
All images are copyrighted.
After her surprising split from Justin Theroux, Jennifer Aniston seems to be getting some love and support from one of her close friends Courteney Cox!
Janet Jackson and Jermaine Dupri are "hooking up," a source tells E!
Jennifer Garner and Chelsea Handler were spotted partying together in Los Angeles on Sunday night.
Rihanna Sports Possible Baby Bump In Secret Photo Shoot [PICS] of a Rihanna pregnancy have been swirling around the pop star for months now, and while neither she nor her billionaire boyfriend, Hassan Jameel, have confirmed anything, new photos appear to show the singer with a baby bump.
It's almost time for Prince Harry and Meghan Markle's big day.
BBC Sport takes a look at some of the key stories of the week.
Brad Pitt has been spotted out and about in Los Angeles with his wife Angelina Jolie.
Blake Shelton and Gwen Stefani’s romance started on The Voice!
It's one of the biggest pop culture stories of the year so far.
Jessica Biel and Justin Theroux are expecting their second child, a source has revealed.
It's been a busy week for Ariana Grande.
Jerry O'Connell says Kelly Ripa is the "best" co-host.
Anna Faris reveals she was jealous of Jennifer Lawrence when she worked alongside Chris Pratt on a film.
All pictures copyrighted.
In the spirit of Valentine’s Day, let’s take a look back at some of the most romantic and stylish dates we’ve seen this year.
It had been a busy summer for Meghan Markle.
Jennifer Lopez's ex-husband Marc Anthony is "devastated" by her new romance with Drake, sources tell Life & Style.
Sharon Osbourne returned to The Talk on Tuesday to discuss her split from Ozzy Osbourne.
Brad Pitt went gray on Sunday, but why did he do it?
Pop stars Katy Perry and The Weeknd have been linked to each other in the past, but have they actually been seeing each other?
The Duke and Duchess of Sussex are expecting twins, Kensington Palace has confirmed to Life & Style.
Ben Affleck's girlfriend Lindsay Shookus has decided not to drink around the actor while he's in rehab.
Brad Pitt is disputing Angelina Jolie’s claims that he has not paid “meaningful” child support.
The National Enquirer has had to apologise to Judge Judy Sheindlin after they published a false story claiming she had Alzheimer's disease and cheated on her husband, Jerry Sheindlin, among other accusations like Nicole Sheindlin's step-daughter was facing jail time.
Bruce Springsteen and Bruce Springsteen and the E Street Band paid tribute to David Bowie on the first night of their North American tour.
Taylor Swift is "disgusted" that Justin Bieber and Selena Gomez are back together.
Watch Alicia Keys’ interview with Willie Geist and Carson Daly on The Today Show below.
How do I reset my Google or Facebook password?
Kim Kardashian is reportedly considering asking her surrogate to carry her fourth child.
Kourtney Kardashian is reportedly expecting her fourth child with ex-boyfriend Younes Bendjima, according to a new report.
It’s been almost a year since Khloe Kardashian announced she was expecting her first child with Lamar Odom, but the rumours that she is faking her pregnancy are still going strong.
"Thats what you need to show to get likes?"
Jamie Foxx is reportedly jealous of Katie Holmes’ friendship with former flame Joshua Jackson.
In Case You Missed It: A Day in the Life of Khloe Kardashian.
Prince Harry and Meghan Markle are not getting married in December, according to reports.
.
Ellen DeGeneres and Portia de Rossi are reportedly struggling to keep their marriage alive despite ongoing divorce reports.
Gwen Stefani and Blake Shelton's wedding plans could be on hold, RadarOnline.com has learned, after the No Doubt front woman asked her fiance to put down the bottle - and he headed to the liquor store!
One of music's top talent managers is helping Coldplay raise money for victims of the Manchester attack.
Is Gwen Stefani pregnant with Blake Shelton’s Child?
It's been almost a year since Ben Affleck and Lindsay Shookus took their relationship public and they're still going strong.
The Flip or Flop star has been dating the British TV personality since last November, and it may not be long before the couple makes their relationship official. The Flip or Flop star has been dating the British TV personality since last November, and it may not be long before the couple makes their relationship official.
Twilight star Kristen Stewart has revealed she wants to have babies with her boyfriend Robert Pattinson... then cheating pictures emerged "I want to have his babies": Kristen Stewart reveals family plans with Rob just weeks before she cheated There are probably quite a lot of things that Kristen Stewart would like to undo after pictures showed her cheating
The Boondock Saints is getting its own TV series.
Serena Williams, 36, doesn’t want to be involved in the “cold war” between Beyonce and Kim Kardashian, a source tells HollywoodLife.com.
Take a look back at some of the most memorable celebrity meals over the years.
Pop star Justin Bieber has been accused of spending the night with prostitutes in Rio de Janeiro.
All images are copyrighted.
A selection of photos from around the world this week:
It's one of the cutest things we've ever seen.
Justin Bieber ‘moves on with mystery blonde’ (Picture: Backgrid) Justin Bieber appears to have moved on from rumours that he has split from Selena Gomez, looking pretty pleased with himself on a night out.
One of the stars of the upcoming film 'Dumplin' is excited for the role.
What is Promo Bar Your Promo Bar attached to any site This is a panel on top of a shared page, which contains the info on things you want to promote.
Roseanne Barr's net worth is estimated to be $80 million.
Justin Theroux didn’t want to get married.
Brad Pitt and Jennifer Aniston's romance ended in divorce in 2005.
For many children, seeing Dad is a source of pride and joy.
Pop star Christina Aguilera is reportedly ready to break up with her boyfriend Matthew Rutler.
Kim Kardashian West, Kanye West, Khloe Kardashian, Kourtney Kardashian, Kendall Jenner, Kylie Jenner, and more!
A selection of photos from around the world this week:
When Jennifer Aniston moved out of the Los Angeles home she shared with Brad Pitt earlier this year, she didn’t know what to expect.
Prince Harry and Meghan Markle are set to marry in May, but what will their royal titles be?
Blake Shelton and Gwen Stefani reportedly broke up last month but the No Doubt singer is still clinging on to hope that they will get back together. Shelton supposedly broke up with Stefani last month but the No Doubt singer is still clinging on to hope that they will get back together.
Reality TV star Kourtney Kardashian's boyfriend, Scott Disick, has been dumped by his girlfriend, Sofia Richie.
It’s rare that a member of the Kardashian-Jenner family appears on a talk show.
Ellen DeGeneres and Portia de Rossi’s marriage may be in trouble!
Brigitte Nielsen is pregnant with her first child with husband Mattia Dess.
Scarlett Johansson and Colin Jost make their first public appearance as a couple at the 2017 American Museum of Natural History Gala.
It’s time to get engaged!
Seven months after women began coming forward with stories alleging sexual misconduct by Hollywood producer Harvey Weinstein, the former movie mogul has been arraigned on charges of rape and committing a criminal sexual act in the first degree.
HollywoodLife.com has learned that American Idol producers want Selena Gomez to join Katy Perry as a judge on the show.
As Oscar season approaches, all eyes are on Leonardo DiCaprio.
Bradley Cooper has reunited with most of the original cast of "The Hangover" for the sequel, "The Hangover Part II."
Kristen Bell has revealed her baby girl's name was picked for a boy.
Katie Holmes is reportedly spending millions of dollars to keep her romance with Jamie Foxx secret.
It's one of the most talked-about wedding stories of all time.
Celebrities are among those taking part in today’s Tax March protests.
It's almost Valentine's Day, which means it's also time for some unusual couples to get together.
Jane Fonda has been diagnosed with dementia, according to a source close to the Oscar-winning actress.
Could this be the biggest reunion interview of the century?
Kristen Stewart hosted Saturday Night Live and her ex Robert Pattinson is giving her big applause!
Twilight fans rejoiced when Robert Pattinson and Kristen Stewart were spotted together at Johnny Depp’s birthday party.
It's official!
Chris Pratt is “heartbroken” over his wife Anna Faris’ new relationship with cinematographer Michael Barrett, a source tells HollywoodLife.com.
There’s a scene in a recent episode of Keeping Up With the Kardashians that has gone viral.
How do I reset my Google or Facebook password?
Jennifer Garner is reportedly dating Chris Pine after her divorce from Ben Affleck.
All images subject to copyright.
A selection of photos from around the world this week:
There’s no truth to this story, according to Gossip Cop.
Kim Kardashian's mother, Kris Jenner, knows a thing or two about matchmaking.
Kelly Ripa is reportedly jealous of Michael Strahan’s ratings success on ‘The $100,000 Pyramid’.
What Robert Kardashian would look like now as an AI reveals posthumous face on 80th birthday
It's that time of year again, when the world's biggest film awards are handed out.
Selena Gomez was all smiles as she headed out for a trip with rumoured love interest Caleb Stevens (Picture: TheImageDirect.com)
It’s been a week since Beyoncé announced she’s pregnant with twins, but that hasn’t stopped people from speculating that she’s had lip injections.
From George Takei to James Gunn, Hollywood has been reacting to the latest developments in the Russia investigation.
Have you ever heard of a house being haunted?
It's been a tough few months for the Kardashian-Jenner family, with Kim and Kanye's split, Khloe's split from Tristan Thompson, Kylie's split from Travis Scott, and Kim and Kanye's split.
Jamie Foxx is reportedly jealous of Katie Holmes’ friendship with former flame Joshua Jackson.
Goldie Hawn and Kurt Russell have split up, according to a new report.
Kim Kardashian is reportedly considering the release of a nude cookbook.
It’s the ultimate betrayal!
Beyonce’s rep is lashing out at a webloid for publishing a false story speculating the pregnant superstar received lip injections.
While it may seem like a typical night out in Los Angeles, a special diner just so happened to also be in attendance.
Taylor Swift's lawyer says the singer is "not trying to bankrupt" the man who groped her.
Priyanka Chopra and Nick Jonas are reportedly moving in together.
It’s almost time for another Mendes baby!
From the Golden Globes to the Critics' Choice Awards, it's been a busy few weeks for Hollywood.
A source close to James Franco has told HollywoodLife.com that he’s not going to respond to Scarlett Johansson’s speech at the Women’s March in Los Angeles.
Prince Harry said he fell in love "so incredibly quickly" with American actress Meghan Markle that he knew the two were meant to spend their lives together.
Nicole Kidman wants her husband Keith to join her in drama Big Little Lies (Picture: Kevork Djansezian/Getty Images)
Jennifer Lopez’s boyfriend Alex Rodriguez has been cheating on her for months, a source tells In Touch.
Ashley Olsen is reportedly 'fuming' with jealousy over her twin sister's plans to start a family, according to a new report.
Jessica Alba and Cash Warren welcome their third child, Hayes Alba Warren, into the world on New Year's Eve.
Miranda Lambert has reportedly accused Blake Shelton of using The Voice co-star Gwen Stefani to make her jealous.
The Kardashian-Jenner clan celebrated the birthday of Kylie Jenner’s mother, Mary Jo “MJ” Shannon, on Thursday.
All pictures copyrighted.
The Hollywood producer is expected to be arrested on sexual assault charges on Friday.
Jennifer Aniston and Katy Perry are not fighting over Orlando Bloom, according to a new report from RadarOnline.
A selection of photos from around the world this week:
It's been a week since the One Direction star gave birth to his first child and now it's time to find out what the baby's name will be.
Jennifer Aniston Meets Ex-Husband Brad Pitt’s Kids: ‘They’re So Sweet!’
Dancing with the Stars contestant Vanessa Hudgens has been accused of staging her performance on Monday night's show.
It’s been another busy year in the world of entertainment.
Blake Griffin has been traded from the Los Angeles Clippers to the Detroit Pistons.
Julia Roberts and Danny Moder are celebrating 16 years of marriage in July, and Us Weekly has the inside scoop!
Pop star Katy Perry and actor Orlando Bloom are reportedly getting married, according to a new report.
The Bachelor is back!
Bradley Cooper and his fiancée Shayk are expecting their first child together.
Miranda Kerr and Evan Spiegel are expecting their first child together.
Rihanna has denied reports that she’s pregnant.
It’s that time of year again.
Tom Hanks and wife Rita Wilson enjoying a night out with Jennifer Aniston and Justin Theroux.
It's all for show!
Aaron Carter is opening up about his sexuality, revealing that he is attracted to both men and women.
Eddie Cibrian tried to cheat on LeAnn Rimes with Brandi Glanville, according to his ex-girlfriend Scheana Marie.
Pop star Gwen Stefani is being sued after allegedly causing a stampede at a concert in Pittsburgh.
It's been a year and a half since Chris Pratt and Anna Faris announced they were separating, but it looks like they're back together.
There's no truth to it.
Julia Roberts is pregnant with her second child with husband Danny Moder, a source has told OK!
Justin Bieber and Selena Gomez have reportedly called off their engagement after two years together.
Jennifer Lopez and Alex Rodriguez hold hands while heading into Cipriani’s Wall Street for a friend’s wedding on Sunday night (August 6) in New York City.
It’s not looking good!
"I was shaking at this point."
The Trump administration’s decision to pull the United States out of the Paris climate agreement has been met with outrage on social media.
All images are copyrighted.
Kim Kardashian West lost a diamond earring while on holiday in Bora Bora.
It's been a year and a half since two of the most talked-about royals in the world became sisters-in-law.
Brad Pitt has reportedly admitted his relationship with Angelina Jolie was toxic from the start.
Angelina Jolie and Brad Pitt may be splitting up, but it looks like she’s got a new man in her life.
Tyga and Kylie Jenner are no longer dating, but they’re still friends.
Jennifer Lopez’s boyfriend Alex Rodriguez has been cheating on her for months, a source tells In Touch.
"I don't know if I can see her waffling around the Buckingham palace!"
Kim Kardashian did not date Calum Best - but they were at school together
Katie Holmes is furious with Jamie Foxx after he was spotted flirting with bikini-clad babes in Miami while she was in Paris with her daughter Suri.
A source tells ET that the Leftovers star is "still heartbroken" over his split from Jennifer Aniston.
Irina Shayk and Bradley Cooper are expecting their first child!
All images are copyrighted.
Bella Hadid says she's "humbled" to be walking the Victoria's Secret Fashion Show for a second year in a row.
Mariah Carey says she signed her life away at an early age.
Twilight star Kristen Stewart has recently been slammed by tabloids for her poor hygiene and her putrid body odor.
A new report claims Katie Holmes and Jamie Foxx are planning to get married, but a rep for the actor has denied the story is true.
Selena Gomez has a busy year ahead of her.
Prince Harry’s sister-in-law, Pippa Middleton, has reportedly banned Meghan Markle from her upcoming wedding.
It’s not looking good!
It’s a girl!
From Caitlyn Jenner's memoir to Drake Bell's feud with Josh Peck, here's a look back at some of the biggest celebrity feuds over the past year.
It’s been almost a year since the big screen version of Sex and the City was scrapped.
All pictures subject to copyright.
The Keeping Up With the Kardashians star was reportedly taken to the hospital after suffering a bad reaction to a vitamin IV drip.
Miranda Lambert and Anderson East are no longer together.
It's one of the most talked-about couples in Hollywood.
He’s one of TV’s best-loved actors, and now he’s speaking out about the new Magnum P.I.
Jennifer Aniston and Brad Pitt are reportedly planning a skiing holiday in Aspen.
How Meghan Markle's Uninvited Family Crashed The Royal Wedding Meghan Markle lived out a fantasy most women could only dream of on May 19, 2018.
Kim Kardashian West says she "could be my sisters' manager better than my mom could be."
Caitlyn Jenner won’t be waltzing her way onto Dancing With the Stars anytime soon.
Are Drew Barrymore and Will Kopelman getting back together?
When Justin Bieber and Hailey Baldwin first started seeing each other, it wasn't easy.
All images are copyrighted.
Dolorem eum fugiat quo voluptas nulla pariatur?
All images are copyrighted.
Kelly Clarkson and Jennifer Hudson are returning to The Voice.
How do I reset my Google or Facebook password?
Catherine Zeta-Jones and her look-alike daughter Carys Zeta-Jones covered Town & Country's September 2018 issue - marking the teen's first cover shoot. Town & Country Catherine Zeta-Jones and her look-alike daughter Carys, 15, covered Town & Country's September 2018 issue -- marking
Kourtney Kardashian and Younes Bendjima have ended their nearly two-year relationship, and the 39-year-old reality star was the one who wanted out, a source confirms to Us Weekly.
Justin Bieber's decision to "like" and "unlike" Selena Gomez's Instagram post has sparked speculation about their relationship.
Matt Bomer says he's proud of Wentworth Miller for coming out as a gay man.
Madonna has been granted permission to adopt four-year-old twins from Malawi, after she appeared in court to hear a judge rule in her favour.
How do I reset my Google or Facebook password?
This may be the only holiday card we'll be getting from the famous family this year.
Kim Kardashian West is said to be upset with Kanye West for blaming his mother Donda West’s death for his erratic behaviour.
Ron Perlman and Donald Trump Jr.
Marc Anthony is an American actor, singer, entrepreneur, and producer who has a net Worth of $80 million.
It’s official!
Brad Pitt is said to be "devastated" by Angelina Jolie's decision to divorce him.
Justin Theroux and Aubrey Plaza Spotted Together in New York.
Mila Kunis and Natalie Portman’s love stories are intertwined, as Kunis revealed on Marc Maron’s podcast.
Anna Faris and Chris Pratt have called it a day after 10 years together.
Robert Pattinson and Mia Goth hit the streets of Cologne, Germany on Tuesday (August 22).
Justin Bieber and Selena Gomez reportedly got into a fight at a restaurant in Los Angeles on Tuesday night.
Khloe Kardashian and Tristan Thompson have been having relationship issues ever since the NBA star was busted cheating on the Keeping Up with the Kardashians star back in April.
Some sad news in celebrity wedding land: Robert Pattinson and FKA twigs's upcoming nuptials have been called off, according to an In Touch report.
Jennifer Aniston is moving to New York City this coming October to film her new TV show for Apple alongside Reese Witherspoon.
Andy Cohen says claims he asked Kathy Griffin to do cocaine are “100% false and totally made up.”
It's that time of year again!
Linkin Park singer Chester Bennington has died at the age of 41.
He is one of the most famous men in the world, and he is also one of the most famous women in the world.
How much is Kanye West worth after losing his fortune?
It’s official: The Weeknd and Selena Gomez are engaged!
Blake Shelton and Gwen Stefani are taking aim at the constant tabloid rumors claiming that they’re having children.
It’s no secret that Jennifer Lopez and Alex Rodriguez are madly in love, but it turns out they’re also planning on having more babies!
What do you do if your toddler is wearing a bulletproof vest?
She was suspended for 10 days last year over comments she made on a podcast about the network's CO vaccine policy and former President Barack Obama's racial identity.
Jennifer Aniston's marriage to Justin Theroux is 'all but over', according to Life & Style.
Kate Middleton and Meghan Markle are'bonding' over their pregnancies, according to US magazine In Touch.
This site uses cookies.
Emma Stone and Ryan Gosling won an Oscar for their performances in La La Land, but now it seems the film may have been whitewashed.
Miranda Lambert's divorce from Blake Shelton was announced in July, but the singer has been speaking out about the split ever since.
"Funny People" actress Leslie Mann on which films get her seal of approval.
Caitlyn Jenner says she is considering running for the US Senate in 2020.
Prince Harry and Meghan Markle will marry next year, Kensington Palace has announced.
How do I reset my Google or Facebook password?
Jennifer Lopez and Alex Rodriguez are officially a couple.
In the wake of Jennifer Aniston and Justin Theroux’s announcement last week that they were separating, a lot has been printed about the split, and a lot of it seems to be coming from Theroux’s friends.
It’s the end of the road for one of the biggest pop stars in the world!
One of Princess Diana's most iconic outfits is going up for auction.
Prince William and Kate Middleton's body language has been the subject of intense scrutiny in recent months.
It's Valentine's Day, which means it's time to remind ourselves that love is not dead.
Russian President Vladimir Putin has supported Joe Biden for President in America.
Kanye West "auditioned" for American Idol during the show's auditions in San Francisco on Saturday.
Katie Holmes and James Van Der Beek have started seeing each other, according to a source close to the actress.
Prince Harry's mother, Diana, Princess of Wales, "had a bit of a problem with Harry's partying," writes royal biographer Katie Nicholl in her new book, A Royal Romance.
Lionel Richie is reportedly preparing a $200 million prenup to protect his daughter, Sofia, should she marry reality TV star Scott Disick.
Gwen Stefani has reportedly suffered a miscarriage after her fourth child, which also would have been the first child of her boyfriend, country singer Blake Shelton. Gwen Stefani has reportedly suffered a miscarriage after her fourth child, which also would have been the first child of her boyfriend, country singer Blake Shelton.
It's that time of year again.
We’re sitting in the living room of Angelina Jolie’s Los Angeles home, surrounded by the six children she shares with ex-husband Brad Pitt.
Black Eyed Peas singer Fergie reportedly crushes on 19-year-old supermodel Kendall Jenner.
Keeping Up With The Kardashians is one of my all time favourite shows.
The final part of the Harry Potter and the Cursed Child tour is now open to the public, and we've put together a guide to help you get the most out of your visit.
Black Panther star Chadwick Boseman revealed doubters had tried to convince him not to give the superhero an African accent.
"Every day that goes by it just feels like a stronger bond between the two of us and it constantly feels like it's going to the next level."
It’s almost time for Kylie Jenner to give birth!
It looks like Bindi Irwin is getting engaged!
After two years of dating and welcoming their first child together, Kylie Jenner and Travis Scott split in October 2019.
Stick-thin Jim Carrey is wasting away to nothing, holed up like a hermit in his art studio!
Caitlyn Jenner’s rep has denied a report that the former Olympian is expecting her first child with girlfriend Sophia Hutchins.
It looks like Katie Holmes and Jamie Foxx aren’t going to be starting a family anytime soon.
Jennifer Aniston and Justin Theroux are no longer together.
With the release of Disney's Beauty and the Beast this weekend, we thought we'd take a look back at some of the damsels in distress we've fallen in love with over the years.
An actor who sued a Twitter user who suggested he was a cocaine addict has won a $10 million settlement.
Do you feel it in your heart? The whole thing leaves a worse taste in my mouth than Juliet’s “terrible taste in pie.” How can Juliet and Mark never tell Peter about their weird little moment?
Mila Kunis opened up on her relationship with Ashton Kutcher on Marc Maron’s podcast Monday, starting with her familiarity with Kutcher’s first marriage to actress Demi Moore.
Ed Sheeran has come to a deal to end a $20 million copyright infringement lawsuit brought by two songwriters, Martin Harrington and Thomas Leonard, over his hit, “Photograph.”
The Duchess of Cambridge's brother-in-law, James Middleton, has got engaged to his girlfriend, Pippa Middleton.
Comedian Amy Schumer and her boyfriend, Ben Hanisch, celebrate their one-year anniversary in November.
Prosecutors in Brazil say they will continue to pursue charges against American swimmer Ryan Lochte for falsely claiming he had been robbed at gunpoint during the 2016 Olympics.
Protesters rushed the stage after swimmer Ryan Lochte's first performance on "Dancing with the Stars."
As Carrie Underwood steps down as co-host of the 2020 CMA Awards, we take a look back at her best looks from the show over the years.
The Duke and Duchess of Cambridge are'so happy' to be expecting their fourth child, a royal source has told US magazine In Touch.
It was a night we'll never forget.
Add Colton Haynes to the cast of American Horror Story.
Reza Farahan is an Iranian-American real estate agent and reality television star who has a net worth of $7 million dollars.
A selection of photos from around the world this week:
It's a girl!
Ryan Gosling and Eva Mendes are reportedly married.
Lake Bell and husband Scott Campbell have welcomed their second child, a baby boy, Us Weekly confirmed.
The Real Housewives of Atlanta is back!
Remy's Ratatouille Adventure is a family-friendly attraction where guests feel as if they shrink to the size of a rat and race through Gusteau's restaurant in the newly expanded France pavilion at EPCOT at Walt Disney World Resort in Lake Buena Vista, Fla.
A selection of photos from around the world this week:
Elizabeth Smart husband Matthew Gilmour age wiki bio and net worth as of 2020
Check out the trailer for The Real Housewives of Beverly Hills Season 9 below.
It's been a year since Rob Kardashian proposed to Blac Chyna.
It’s one of TV’s best-kept secrets.
The new trailer for Feud: Bette and Joan has been released.
All images subject to copyright.
The 10 most interesting things to learn from Alec Baldwin’s new book, Nevertheless.
Kyle and Megan are working on a play, Nate’s in love with Megan, and Lisbeth is back in Kyle’s life.
Chris Pratt breaks down in tears as he eats a carrot cake muffin on the set of 'Jurassic World.' Instagram Chris Pratt breaks down in tears as he eats a carrot cake muffin on the set of 'Jurassic World.'
On this week’s episode of The Arrangement, Kyle and Megan’s romance takes a turn for the worse.
All images subject to copyright.
Whether you’re new to the world of beauty or a seasoned pro, there’s always something new to try.
All pictures subject to copyright.
A daily guide to the best of the week's television, film and entertainment news.
Brad Pitt appears to have shed some weight following his split from Angelina Jolie.
Check out the nominations for this year's MTV Movie & TV Awards below.
An Israeli political party has delayed an election because of a Britney Spears concert.
Shia LaBeouf got kicked out of a bowling alley after freaking out on a bartender, calling him a "f***ing racist."
It’s official: Nikki Bella and John Cena are engaged!
If you’re a Star Wars fan, you need to watch this video right now.
The actress who plays Josh's love interest in TV's The Arrangement has revealed she's already planning her spring break!
It’s that time of year again.
Check out Selena Gomez’s must-have outfits for a busy day in New York.
Amber Portwood and Catelynn Lowell are not happy about Farrah Abraham's replacement on Teen Mom OG.
Chrissy Teigen and Arthur Throw Shade at John Legend's Easter Bunny Outfit (E!)
It's hard to believe it's been a year since American Idol came to an end...
Jimmy Kimmel paid tribute to comedy legend Don Rickles on Thursday night’s episode of “Jimmy Kimmel Live” on ABC.
Did Aaron Rodgers and Olivia Munn break up last year?
The young Ryan Gosling look-alike asked Emma Stone to prom in an epic video that he posted to Twitter on Tuesday, April 4 — read more and watch the choreographed clip.
A selection of photos from around the world this week:
A source tells Us that Phaedra Parks will not be returning to The Real Housewives of Atlanta for season 10.
It's that time of year again.
All images are copyrighted.
At Patheos, we believe faith is a force for good in the world, but we also know it’s hard to find accurate religion online.
All images are copyrighted.
Police were called to a hotel in Malibu, California, on Sunday night.
A selection of photos from around the world this week:
Hugh Hefner is one of the most famous men in the world, and now one of his former girlfriends is paying tribute to him!
Are you a Gilmore Girls fan?
All images are copyrighted.
Selena Gomez and her 13 Reasons Why co-stars got tattoos to support mental health awareness.
Ryan Phillippe says he is not in a relationship with Katy Perry.
It's not every day you get to bump into an ex at an intimate gathering.
The latest trailer for Thor: Ragnarok shows the Asgardian superhero facing off against the Hulk for the first time.
Allison Williams talks about how the series has changed her as an actress and how she thinks Marnie has changed as a person.
The Chrisleys are gearing up for their 100th episode of Chrisley Knows Best.
A selection of photos from around the world this week:
Caitlyn Jenner memoir’s version of life with Kris Jenner creates a new rift in the family.
It's been a busy week for the royal family.
BBC Sport takes a look at some of the key stories of the week.
Paris Hilton and James Blunt have been spotted enjoying a night out in New York.
It's been a rough few months for the Kardashian-Thompson family.
Police were called to a hotel in Malibu, California, on Sunday night.
You already have the maximum number of items in your basket.
A selection of photos from around the world this week:
Caroline Jones on Touring, Releasing an Album and Preparing to Welcome a Baby – All at the Same Time (Exclusive)
She’s one of the world’s most famous supermodels, and now Kendall Jenner is about to launch her own fashion line.
Superman will be joined by Lois Lane in this year’s Arrowverse superhero crossover event.
"I'm just tired of being put down for it."
Will Smith has cut off his son Jaden’s dreadlocks.
Howard Stern sent a video of naked men doing yoga to the Biggest Loser trainer who nearly died earlier this year.
Donald Trump’s wife has settled her lawsuit against the Daily Mail over a story that suggested she was an escort when she emigrated to the United States in the 1990s.
Vanessa Hudgens has revealed how she shed 10lbs by following a strict diet and workout regime.
It’s not easy being a new mother, right?
It’s friendship at its best in the new trailer for Grace and Frankie.
All images are copyrighted.
The first trailer for “Fantastic Beasts: The Crimes of Grindelwald” has been released.
Tinsley Mortimer is one of New York City’s most famous and successful women.
Bachelor in Paradise star Grant Kemp tells Us Weekly that his ex-girlfriend has been trying to get his attention since they broke up.
On Sunday night’s episode of Feud, Ryan Murphy revealed how Bette Davis masterminded her own sadistic revenge on her once-again co-star Joan Crawford.
Model and actress Karrueche Tran has taken to social media to deny reports that she and her boyfriend Quavo have split up.
Shia LaBeouf’s latest stunt is to spend a month isolated in a cabin in Finland’s remote Lapland region, with his only communication with the outside world coming via text message to visitors to a Helsinki museum.
Kanye West says he regrets not staying by Kim Kardashian’s side during her Paris robbery.
It’s been a long time coming.
All images are copyrighted.
Justin and Hailey Bieber Go to Church Together After Her Dad Stephen Requested 'a Little Prayer' for the Spouses
On last week's episode of Survivor: Game Changers, Jeff Varner revealed he was transgender.
Billie Lourd paid tribute to her late mother Carrie Fisher at the Star Wars Celebration event.
There's a lot going on in the Trump world.
It's one of the most shocking revelations in Survivor history.
Caitlyn Jenner memoir’s version of life with Kris Jenner creates a new rift in the family.
All images are copyrighted.
It’s one of the most beloved sitcoms of all time, and now a musical version of Friends is coming to Broadway.
The Good Wife star Matt Czuchry shares his thoughts on the end of the CBS drama and the upcoming Gilmore Girls revival.
Sharna Burgess is dating actor Pierson Fodé!
Is she pregnant or just fat? A segment on a Dutch game show called Neem Je Zwemspullen Mee (Bring Your Bathing Suit) asks male contestants to guess whether women are fat or pregnant, and the internet is none too pleased about the misogynistic premise.
Ellen DeGeneres, left, and Laura Dern in a scene from the 1997 episode of Ellen.
Check out the trailer for The Strangers: Chapter 1 below...
Director Mimi Leder explains how she brought Damon Lindelof’s acclaimed drama to life and why one big scene didn’t make the cut for the series finale.
Do you remember Carmen Sandiego?
WWE Superstar Natalya spoke to WWE.COM about the new season of Total Divas, her run to the Women’s Championship and the ever-increasing wealth of her cat.
Check out the trailer for The Strangers: Chapter 1 below...
It’s official.
Second Wives Club star Shiva Safai says Zayn Malik and Gigi Hadid have a great relationship.
All images are copyrighted.
In the wake of Kim Kardashian West's announcement that she's opening her own beauty store, we've been taking a look at some of the other celebrities who stock up on their own beauty products.
Pop star Janet Jackson and her baby son Eissa Al Mana are seen in a photo posted on Twitter.
A selection of photos from around the world this week:
All images are copyrighted.
Mariah Carey and Nick Cannon reunited to celebrate Easter with their 5-year-old twins, Monroe and Moroccan.
"The Cure" is Lady Gaga's latest single and it's already topping iTunes charts.
All images are copyrighted.
All images are copyrighted.
Hollywood actress Jessica Chastain has been spotted out and about in Los Angeles.
"Today" co-host Hoda Kotb broke down in tears as she returned to the show for the first time since giving birth in February.
He’s one of Hollywood’s most eligible bachelors, but when it comes to divorce, Charlie Hunnam has a confession to make!
Girls co-showrunner Lena Dunham and executive producer Jenni Konner talk about the show’s legacy, baby names, and why Sunday night’s series finale felt like more of a series finale.
Ashley Tisdale says she's "so excited" to be attending the 2017 Coachella music festival in California.
It's not every day you get to shake a president's hand.
Netflix is releasing a docu-series about the mysterious murder of a nun nearly 50 years ago.
It’s not every day you get to share a joint with your children.
All images are copyrighted.
Star Wars: Episode IX will be released in December 2019.
Daisy Ridley, who plays Rey in Star Wars: The Last Jedi, answers some of your questions about the film.
A police detective was attacked by a goose as he tried to walk down the sidewalk into the building.
The sequel to Guardians of the Galaxy doubles down on the eye-popping new worlds, over-the-top personalities and family drama.
It was incredibly difficult to watch Scheana Shay and Mike Shay's confrontation at this season's Vanderpump Rules reunion.
Selena Gomez and The Weeknd at Coachella 2017.
Are The Bachelorette’s Robby Hayes and Are You The One?
All images are copyrighted.
The director of the latest Guardians of the Galaxy film has revealed he once considered taking his own life.
It's a look we're dying to try.
The actress is expecting her first child with husband José Antonio Bastn, her rep confirms to PEOPLE.
What do you make of Chris Brown’s plan to tour with Beyonce, Rihanna and Bruno Mars?
It's that time of year again.
It was all about Disney on Monday night!
A big swirling bucket of the latest rumors, celebrity news and Hollywood gossip.
Country star Carrie Underwood surprised fans by taking to the ice for the National Anthem ahead of the Nashville Predators Stanley Cup playoff game.
All images are copyrighted.
It’s been a week since April the giraffe gave birth to her fourth calf, and now it’s time for the newborn to meet his dad!
Aaron Rodgers and Olivia Munn have called it quits, but the actress is reportedly moving on with another man.
It’s been a busy few weeks for Auli’i Cravalho.
Anne Hathaway sings Google Translate versions of classic songs on The Tonight Show.
It’s one of the most common parenting questions we hear all the time.
All images are copyrighted.
As authorities investigate the cause of Prince’s death on Thursday, the entertainment industry mourned the icon’s passing.
Paige denies being suspended for taking PEDs and says she passed all the tests but failed to do it in the allocated time WWE star Paige reveals reason behind 60-day suspension and says 'I don't do drugs' as she looks to get career back on track
The 71st Tony Awards will take place on Sunday, June 11 at Radio City Music Hall.
In our series of letters from African journalists, film-maker and columnist Ahmed Rashid looks at the role of celebrity news in the United States.
Meet Vanessa Rider, the wife of an NBA champion, and mother of four.
Check out the new Pirates of the Caribbean: Dead Men Tell No Tales trailer below.
To mark the 25th anniversary of PEOPLE's 50 Most Beautiful issue, we look back at some of the magazine's most beautiful covers.
All images are copyrighted.
Happy 11th birthday Suri Cruise!
She's the top-ranked female tennis player in the world and she's engaged to be married, but if you thought things couldn't get better for superstar Serena Williams - oh, baby!
All images are copyrighted.
In Case You Missed It: a round-up of interesting celebrity news stories from the past week.
In Case You Missed It: a round-up of interesting celebrity news stories from the past week.
Tiger Woods' alleged mistresses could face legal action from the jilted spouse, legal experts say.
In a sneak peek of Sunday’s episode of Keeping Up with the Kardashians, sisters Kim and Khloé Kardashian sit down to discuss their brother’s bitter legal battle with his ex-fiancée, which began after he posted graphic and expletive-ridden content about her on social media in July
From One Direction's Liam Payne to Backstreet Boys' Nick Carter, here's a look at some of the other celebrities who have become fathers.
The death of former New England Patriots tight end Aaron Hernandez, who hanged himself in his prison cell in Massachusetts, is the latest chapter in a story that began with the unexpected death of his father at the age of 16.
The Real Housewives of Beverly Hills' Erika Jayne may not have won the coveted Mirrorball Trophy this season of Dancing with the Stars, but she went home with something even more spectacular.
All images are copyrighted.
All pictures courtesy of David Henrie and Maria Cahill.
Lea Michele Shares Another Photo Of Corey Monteith And Herself on Instagram.
Comedians pay their final respects to Charlie Murphy during a memorial service in New York.
"Real Housewives of New York" stars Bethenny Frankel, Carole Radziwill, Dorinda Medley, Ramona Singer, and Caroline Manzo gathered for a murder mystery dinner.
The Deliverance EP that was announced Tuesday with the title track available for early streaming has been removed from iTunes, Apple Music, Amazon Music and Google Play.
The 2017 MTV Video Music Awards will be broadcast from the Forum in Inglewood, California on 27 August.
Who are the most likely celebrities to have had nose jobs?
In the finale of Feud, Joan Crawford and Bette Davis finally get to see each other face-to-face.
Find out more about TrendolizerTM at get.trendolizer.com
In Case You Missed It: a round-up of interesting celebrity news stories from the past week.
A post-mortem examination will take place on Friday on the body of Prince, after the pioneering musician died at his home aged 57 amid reports he was treated for a drug overdose just days before his death.
Shahs of Sunset star Asa Soltan Rahmati says she's open to having more children.
You’re trying to ask a woman a question?
It's not every day you see a reality TV star admit to being in a relationship.
One of the biggest feuds in the Fast and the Furious franchise came in The Fate of the Furious.
It looks like Diana, Princess of Wales is getting her own TV series.
It's hard to believe it's been six years since LeAnn Rimes and Eddie Cibrian wed.
Happy Days actress Erin Moran has died at the age of 56.
Lady Gaga dedicated an acoustic version of her song “Edge of Glory” to her friend Sonja Durham, who is battling cancer.
A selection of photos from around the world this week:
In an interview with The Hollywood Reporter, Ryan Murphy explains why he wanted to include a sex scene between Bette Davis and What Ever Happened to Baby Jane?
Amanda Bynes has been arrested in Los Angeles on suspicion of driving under the influence.
Happy birthday, Gigi Hadid!
Caitlyn Jenner is opening up about the difficulty of maintaining a relationship with her kids following her gender transition, the mistakes she’s made in her journey and how she once thought the only time she would get to publicly wear woman’s clothing would be in her coffin.
The stars of The Real Housewives of Atlanta are warning other parents about the dangers of dogs.
A selection of photos from around the world this week:
It's all caught on camera.
The theory that JonBenet Ramsey was murdered by her brother in 1996 has divided opinion on Twitter.
Real Housewives of New York City's Carole Radziwill once dated George Clooney.
In honor of Romy and Michele's High School Reunion's 20th anniversary, we reached out to the cast and crew, including Mira Sorvino, Lisa Kudrow, and Alan Cumming, to reminisce about the making of the cult classic.
The Amy Schumer- Goldie Hawn comedy “Snatched” is an uninspired, scattershot disaster romp that mostly serves the talents of one half of the marquee pairing, underuses the other half, and struggles to blend R-rated humor, foreign misadventure, and oil-and-water mother-
There are so many things you can do at home to improve the look of your hair.
Robert Durst has been charged with the murder of his close friend Susan Berman, who disappeared in 2000.
After five seasons, numerous deaths and a dark decent into madness, the world of A&E’s Bates Motel came to a close Monday with an expected yet heartbreaking series finale.
In Case You Missed It: a round-up of interesting celebrity news stories from the past week.
The Real Housewives of Beverly Hills star Kyle Richards has revealed she's pregnant with her second child.
In Case You Missed It: a round-up of interesting celebrity news stories from the past week.
If you’ve ever wondered what it takes to be a Hollywood A-lister, you’ve come to the right place.
Mila Kunis teamed up with the home company Breeze to makeover her parents' California condo.
"I caught the c-t," Tom Hardy yelled when the Hollywood-style chase came to a halt.
Harry Styles will appear in a week-long residency on “The Late Late Show with James Corden” in May.
The Hollywood Club Crawl is the premier VIP nightlife experience in Los Angeles.
Comedian and late night television host Seth Meyers will return to host the 2017 CFDA Fashion Awards in partnership with Swarovski on Monday, June 5 at The Manhattan Center’s Hammerstein Ballroom.
It’s hard to know what to make of it.
All images are copyrighted.
It’s official: Timon and Pumbaa are coming to the big screen.
If you've been on the hunt for a new Frappuccino this week, you've come to the right place.
It’s official!
Hoda Kotb says she doesn’t change anything about being a mother.
A big swirling bucket of the latest rumors, celebrity news and Hollywood gossip.
It's one of the most talked-about family feuds in TV history.
Serena Williams has announced that she is pregnant with her first child.
Tonight’s episode of The Flash is the worst Barry Allen has ever faced.
The Real Housewives of Atlanta star Kim Zolciak-Biermann took to Instagram on Tuesday night to thank her husband, Kroy Biermann, after their four-year-old son Kash underwent surgery following a serious dog bite.
Kourtney Kardashian's Mexican birthday getaway just hit the maximum level of wet and wild!
Justin Theroux says he’s not intimidated by his wife, Jennifer Aniston.
In a new interview with NNPA Newswire, the 79-year-old embattled comedian says he's now blind.
"Please send me a photo of u holding the bananas, giving the peace sign."
As Kelly Ripa returns to “Live!” for the first time since Michael Strahan’s departure, we take a look back at their time together.
Chris Soules called police before allegedly leaving the scene of a fatal car crash Monday night, newly released audio reveals.
“It’s like nothing I’ve seen her in before, and she’s incredible in the role.”
How did Brad Pitt and Angelina Jolie go from enemies to friends in such a short time?
She’s one of America’s most famousTrademarkiaTrademarkiaTrademarkiaTrademarkiaTrademarkiaTrademarkias.
It's that time of year again!
Aaron Carter has revealed he has a stress eating disorder and a hiatal hernia.
DJ Jazzy Jeff and Will Smith have reunited for their first official show in 12 years.
Photos: Architectural Digest
From the classic trench to the crisp white shirt, here are the 15 pieces every woman should own.
This image released by Warner Bros./DC shows Gal Gadot in a scene from "Wonder Woman."
Kate Hudson sits down with her mother Goldie Hawn for Interview magazine's May issue.
We Should Listen to Palestinians, Not Selena Gomez (Or Other Cele...
Johnny Depp surprised Disneyland park-goers Wednesday evening when he dressed up as Captain Jack Sparrow aboard the “Pirates of the Caribbean” ride.
It’s not every day you get to sit down with Ellen DeGeneres.
United Airlines has announced “substantial” policy changes following the recent incident aboard a recent flight when a passenger was dragged off the plane.
If you've ever wondered what it's like to work with a celebrity real estate agent, then you've come to the right place.
What happens when you have twins?
All images are copyrighted.
Chris Soules has entered a conditional guilty plea regarding the 2017 car crash that left one person dead.
For the third year in a row, the Italian fashion house, Acqua di Parma, is taking part in the International Beach Fashion Show (IBF) in Miami, USA.
A selection of photos from around the world this week:
"I'm overwhelmed that's it's doing as well as it's doing."
Actor Lorenzo Lamas and his wife Shawna Craig are expecting their first child together.
The holidays are a nightmare for many parents, but for one reality TV star, it’s even worse.
What sort of Dungeons & Dragons character would you be? If you'd like to find out what sort of Dungeons & Dragons character you would be (with ability scores, race, classes, level, and alignment), please see this survey: 1.
All images are copyrighted.
Check out all of Beyonce's best second pregnancy styles in photos since announcing that she and husband Jay Z are expecting twins!
A big swirling bucket of the latest rumors, celebrity news and Hollywood gossip.
She scored her first Vogue cover for the April 2017 issue, and has been promoting the Netflix series she produced, “13 Reasons Why.”
Katie Cazorla is the owner of The Painted Nail, a nail salon in Los Angeles.
Check out some of the stars who hit the red carpet at the Billboard Latin Music Awards 2017.
In our series of letters from African-American journalists, film-maker and columnist Sharon Waxman reflects on her decision to re-read Neil Gaiman’s American Gods.
The late Bobbi Kristina Brown's life has been the subject of a number of TV shows over the years.
Oprah Winfrey has announced that she is ending her talk show after 25 years.
Pop star Harry Styles has announced his first solo world tour, which will begin in the United States and end in Japan in December.
Q: My daughter is 13 and an eighth grader in middle school.
Reality TV star Chip Gaines is being sued by two former partners of his Waco-based real estate firm.
The return of David Lynch’s cult classic is finally here.
Bristol and Aubrey Marunde are the stars of Flip or Flop Las Vegas, which returns to Bravo on Thursday, March 15 at 9/8c.
A big swirling bucket of the latest rumors, celebrity news and Hollywood gossip.
Police have obtained a search warrant for the blood test results of The Bachelor star Chris Soules.
Casting JonBenét is a documentary about amateur actors auditioning to play the role of murdered Colorado child beauty queen JonBenét Ramsey.
It’s that time of year again when the biggest names in showbiz gather in New York City to celebrate the biggest names in fashion.
If you've ever wondered what it's like to have a fling with a Hollywood star, then you've come to the right place.
Carmelo Anthony’s wife LaLa says that she won’t be divorcing her husband, despite the couple’s high-profile split.
All images are copyrighted.
It’s one of country music’s biggest nights.
Big Sean and Noah Cyrus will perform at the MTV Movie & TV Awards, it was announced today.
From Justin Bieber to Katy Perry, here's a look at some of the celebrities who've surprised students at prom over the years.
A selection of photos from around the world this week:
One of America’s most famous car seats has come out in support of a controversial TV show.
All images are copyrighted.
Paris Hilton and Chris Zylka shared a kiss on the red carpet last night!
Pop star Katy Perry compares dying her hair blonde to former President Barack Obama being replaced by Donald Trump.
"I'm sorry, I didn't know if it was true or not."
Tarek and Christina El Moussa were all smiles when they attended the Daytime Emmys together on Sunday.
A selection of photos from around the world this week:
Mila Kunis and Ashton Kutcher welcomed their second child, USA TODAY has confirmed with Kunis' rep, Melissa Raubvogel.
It’s been six years since Mariah Carey and Nick Cannon welcomed their twins, Monroe and Moroccan, into the world.
The Metropolitan Museum of Art's annual Met Gala is taking place on Monday, and it's one of the biggest events in the fashion world.
It’s one of TV’s most popular couples.
Ryan Seacrest has been named the new co-host of Kelly Ripa’s syndicated daily morning show, “Live with Kelly and Ryan.”
A selection of photos from around the world this week:
It’s been a week of controversy for Ryan Seacrest.
A daily briefing on what matters in the music industry
Can you believe it?
In our series of letters from African journalists, filmmaker and columnist Farai Sevenzo catches up with actor Sean Penn, who is currently on a four-day visit to Haiti.
Kendall Jenner wore a dress made out of 85,000 crystals to the Met Gala on Monday night.
Rihanna, Katy Perry, Tracee Ellis Ross and Pharrell Williams at the Costume Institute Gala at the Metropolitan Museum of Art.
See all of the celebrity looks from the Met Gala 2017 red carpet:
Jennifer Lopez says her time on the “American Idol” judging panel has made her a better singer, dancer, performer and entertainer.
Jaden Smith caused a stir (and countless memes) after carrying his chopped dreadlocks on the Met Gala red carpet last night, but the actor explained that the reason behind his bizarre accessory is actually very sweet.
It's one of the biggest events in the fashion world, and one of the most famous people in the world.
Kendall Jenner showed off her ample assets in a plunging black La Perla slip at the Met Gala.
All the looks from the 2017 Met Gala, held at the Metropolitan Museum of Art's Costume Institute in New York on Monday night.
The Metropolitan Museum of Art’s Costume Institute Gala is one of the biggest events in New York City, but it’s also one of the most expensive.
A selection of photos from around the world this week:
Killer Frost is back!
Jimmy Kimmel told the story of his newborn son's harrowing first few days after being diagnosed with rare and potentially dangerous cardiac defects.
It’s been a busy few weeks for one of the Keeping Up with the Kardashians clan.
All photographs courtesy Vogue.
In a landmark moment, Prince William, Duke of Cambridge, and his brother, Prince Harry, have sat down for on-camera interviews to discuss the aftermath of the death of their mother, Diana, Princess of Wales.
The latest series of Keeping Up With The Kardashians has come to an end, with matriarch Kris Jenner stepping down from the show.
When the first trailer for Unbreakable Kimmy Schmidt Season 3 revealed that Titus (Tituss Burgess) was going to parody Beyonce's Lemonade, I was cautiously excited.
Chris Lopez has taken to Twitter to open up about how he feels about the way he’s perceived by fans of Teen Mom 2.
If you’re planning a trip in the next few months, you might want to stock up on a pair of jeans.
Whether you're new to the idea of storing clothes in a closet or have been there for years, here's how to get started.
This week on The Arrangement, it’s all about horny!
Kim Kardashian West says she's "super aware of everything that I share with the world" after being robbed at gunpoint in Paris last week.
Greg Lewis / Hulu
All images are copyrighted.
Hilary Duff needs help naming her dog!
Paris Jackson has denied reports that she is dating three women at the same time.
"Would I ever get married again?"
The Kardashians are taking revenge on Scott Disick!
Katy Perry and Jennifer Lopez are tuning up for James Corden’s upcoming primetime special of “Carpool Karaoke.”
A Playboy model is in hot water after stripping down to her birthday suit on the top of a sacred mountain.
Two years after Brad Pitt and Angelina Jolie announced they were splitting up, a judge has reportedly declared both Pitt and Jolie to be legally single.
It’s a boy!
Police were called to a hotel in Malibu, California, on Sunday night.
There's no laughter, there's no applause, there's no happy ending.
It's that time of year again!
A TV actress has been charged with domestic violence.
The winners have been announced for the 25th annual People’s Choice Awards, which honour pop culture’s best and brightest.
It’s prom season again.
Kim Zolciak-Biermann, star of The Real Housewives of Atlanta, caused a bit of a stir on Twitter on Wednesday when she tweeted a picture of herself with a baby bump.
Liam Neeson has a very particular set of preferences when it comes to food: Make it free.
In the summer issue of GQ Style, Brad Pitt and Angelina Jolie sit down for an exclusive interview at their Los Angeles home.
All images are copyrighted.
Prince Philip is 97 today and what better way to celebrate than to look back at the Duke of Edinburgh's most colourful quotes.
The mystery of who shot Jason Blossom has been solved.
Taylor Swift MIA: 7 Legit(ish) Theories To Explain Where The Popstar Has Disappeared To WHERE IS SHE FOREVER?!
If you’ve ever wondered what it’s like to live in a spiral staircase apartment in New York City, then you’ve come to the right place.
For the first time since human gummy bear Miley Cyrus and youngest Hemsworth, Liam, reunited earlier this year, The Voice coach has confirmed that they are, in fact, engaged again.
Prince Harry meets young boy with Batten disease during visit to hospital.
If you’re looking for a Mother’s Day gift that screams “you’re a queen, mom,” these Middleton-approved go-tos could give the mother in your life the royal pampering she deserves.
All images are copyrighted.
Scott Disick is happy that Kourtney Kardashian and Younes Bendjima are out of the picture, a source tells PEOPLE.
She's one of the most stylish women in the world, and now she's pregnant with twins!
Five years on from the release of Crazy Stupid Love, the film’s director and co-writer, Dan Fogelman, reflects on the film’s impact on American culture.
How would you like to see Game of Thrones spin-off series?
Miley Cyrus and Mark Ronson’s new single and music video, “Nothing Breaks Like a Heart,” is here!
President-elect Donald Trump has nominated Taylor Swift to be his treasury secretary.
It’s the most famous horse race in the world.
The network has axed the sitcom after six seasons.
The season finale of NBC’s revival of “Will & Grace” failed to see any lift over last week’s numbers in the Nielsen overnight ratings.
The CW has cancelled its freshman drama “Valor.”
He’s the grandson of one of the most famous political families in America.
All images are copyrighted.
Ryan Seacrest will replace Michael Strahan on Kelly Ripa’s talk show.
Kim Kardashian West and Kanye West's Kids Supply line is back with a third collection.
As she prepares to open her first brick-and-mortar storefront for her sustainable lifestyle brand Bayou with Love, Nikki Reed tells PEOPLE she’s excited to be spending some down time at home with her 16-month-old daughter.
If you're looking to improve the look of your skin, you've come to the right place.
It’s a bad day for country music!
A look back at some of the top entertainment stories over the past seven days.
It was a birthday party like no other!
In Case You Missed It: a round-up of interesting celebrity news stories from the past week.
It’s not every day you see a celebrity flipping a bird at the president of the United States.
Prince Harry and Meghan Markle have made their first public appearance together.
The Wilson family is mourning the loss of one of their own.
All images are copyrighted.
It’s not every day you get to celebrate 11 years together!
Like the Oscars, the MTV Movie & TV Awards have a strict dress code.
All images are copyrighted.
It's been a year and a half since Nicole Kidman and Alexander Skarsgard first appeared on our TV screens as Lies matriarchs Celeste and Jane.
Millie Bobby Brown breaks down in tears as she accepts the award for Best Actor in a Show at the MTV Movie &TV Awards.
“American Idol” and the series debut of “The Crossing” did not make for an effective combination for ABC in the Monday overnight ratings.
After months of talks and speculation, Ryan Seacrest will officially return to host the “American Idol” revival on ABC.
It's one of the most talked-about shows on Netflix right now.
Once Upon a Time returns for its seventh season in October.
Celine Dion will celebrate the 20th anniversary of Titanic with a performance of “My Heart Will Go On” at the Billboard Music Awards.
In this week's episode of The Graham Norton Show, the BBC Radio 4 DJ talks about working with Jonathan Ross on The Graham Norton Show.
The stars of E!'s new reality show "What Happens at The Abbey" tell TooFab why the show is a lot less dramatic than "Vanderpump Rules."
The Real Housewives of Miami’s Joanna Krupa and Romain Zago have split after less than four years of marriage, Us Weekly can confirm.
In the latest episode of Total Divas, Nikki Bella reveals that she had been married before she met John Cena.
Demi Lovato and Guilherme Vasconcelos’s relationship appeared to be heating up earlier this year, but the stars recently called it quits, a source confirms to PEOPLE exclusively.
One of the stars of Teen Mom 2 has spoken out about her split from Javi Marroquin.
The season finale of Total Divas will air on the E Network on Wednesday, May 10 at 9/8c.
Watch the full list of nominees for the 2018 CMT Music Awards below.
Jodie Sweetin, who plays Stephanie Tanner on Fuller House, is a musician in her own right, but can she sing in real life?
If you're like most of us, you've probably tried a gel manicure.
The world’s most famous couple have become parents.
The Dancing with the Stars Semi-Finals show was an evening of eventful and shocking eliminations.
One of TV’s most popular sitcoms has been given a two-year contract extension.
Tracee Ellis Ross explains why she wore Rei Kawakubo’s Comme des Garons to the Met Gala.
Pop singer Normani Kordei has spoken out about being cyber-bullied.
In the latest episode of 13 Reasons Why, Tyler (Katherine Langford) is finally allowed to go home for the first time since his suicide.
Can bandanas replace chokers?
The sixth season of "Orange Is the New Black" will premiere on Netflix on 27 July.
It's not every day you get to celebrate your boyfriend's birthday on a private jet, dance to a song by Jagged Edge, and post a video of your cake in French.
Dance Moms star Abby Lee Miller has been sentenced to a year in prison for bankruptcy fraud.
It’s not every day you’re told you’re too old to play the wife of a 57-year-old actor.
Check out the trailer for The Strangers: Chapter 1 below...
After months of talks and speculation, Ryan Seacrest will officially return to host the “American Idol” revival on ABC.
Sarah Michelle Gellar is sharing her story of how she battled postpartum depression following the birth of her now-7-year-old daughter, Charlotte Grace Prinze.
Buying makeup for the first time can be intimidating.
Check out the first footage of Will Smith as the Genie in Disney’s live-action Aladdin.
Lifetime and A&E have teamed up for a two-part documentary about the kidnapping of Elizabeth Smart.
How do you testify in court in front of a judge?
The Real Housewives of Atlanta star has revealed that her son has "perfect vision" in his left eye.
It’s been a long time coming.
Actor Lorenzo Lamas and his wife Shawna Craig are expecting their first child together.
It’s not every day you get to talk to a psychic about the death of a reality TV star.
In the latest issue of Marie Claire magazine, reality star Kim Kardashian reveals her secret to body confidence: daily hour-long workouts.
The CW’s Charmed, Legacies and In the Dark are among the network’s new shows unveiled at this year’s upfronts.
I’ve had zits my whole life.
David Anders, who plays Blaine DeBeers in The CW’s zombie drama “iZombie,” talks about the show’s influences and how he was told to chew as the scenery.
The world has lost one of skateboarding’s funniest men.
It's a sad day in the skateboarding world.
Rob & Big star Christopher “Big Black” Boykin has died at the age of 27.
In Case You Missed It: a round-up of interesting quotes from celebrities over the past week.
It's been almost a year since one of TV's most beloved detectives was killed off.
It's a boy!
The Gosselin sextuplets are officially teenagers!
NBC is hoping to bring back the “Must-See TV” glow to its Thursday night with plans to move the breakout hit drama “This Is Us” to the 9 p.m.
A selection of photos from around the world this week:
The CW has announced dates for the returns of The 100, The Originals, and iZombie, as well as the series premiere of Life Sentence.
Madonna is a movie killer, says Patti LuPone.
If you’re going to post a picture of a private plane on Instagram, why not do it while you’re flying?
This site uses cookies.
One Direction fans are convinced that Harry Styles’ new song, “Two Ghosts,” is about Taylor Swift.
Eva Longoria Says She and son Santiago, 312, Are 'Ready' for Summer: 'Where Are You?'
David Matthews is the co-founder and managing director of Eden Rock Capital Management, a hedge fund based in London.
Robert Pattinson and FKA Twigs have reportedly called time on their three year relationship.
Prince George and Princess Charlotte looked adorable at the wedding of their aunt Pippa Middleton on Saturday, as she married her fiancé James Matthews.
It’s that time of year again when we all want to glow.
Jennifer Hudson is joining The Voice as a coach.
She’s one of Hollywood’s most famous actresses but she’s still single.
Are you a fan of Originals or iZombie?
Pink and husband Carey Hart have welcomed their first child, a baby boy, into the world.
Miley Cyrus and Mark Ronson’s new single and music video, “Nothing Breaks Like a Heart,” is here!
It’s not a great sign that “Lowriders” begins with mumbled, sullen narration from our protagonist, teenage tagger Danny Alvarez (Gabriel Chavarria, “East Los High Nor are we likely to empathize much with the kid when the camera pulls out and we see the aspiring graffiti artist racing to
As Lorne Michaels prepares to leave Saturday Night Live, we look back at the shows that made it to 100 episodes.
Drake stole the show at the 2017 Billboard Music Awards in more ways than one, taking home 13 wins, surpassing Adele‘s mark as the artist with the most BBMA wins in one night, delivering a fiery performance in the middle of the famous Bellagio fountain and, maybe, getting himself a date after hitting on
If you’re a fan of the game show “Jeopardy,” you might have heard of it.
A selection of photos from around the world this week:
One of TV’s longest-running and most popular crime dramas has been renewed for a 19th and final season.
A selection of photos from around the world this week:
The Duke and Duchess of Cambridge have spoken for the first time about their romance in an interview with the BBC's Victoria Derbyshire programme.
All images are copyrighted.
An 11-year-old prince stole the show at a birthday party for Norway's King Harald and Queen Sonja.
"I hope that in some small way an unconventional body wearing an unconventional material opened up discussion, hearts and minds."
It's been a year since Jason Blossom's (Cole Sprouse) death at the end of Riverdale's first season.
Liam Payne goes solo to drop remix of Cheryl’s track ‘I Don’t Care’
The coming-of-age story, from Northwood Entertainment and executive producers Moira Walley-Beckett and Miranda de Pencier, will begin production on the third season in the winter. The coming-of-age story, from Northwood Entertainment and executive producers Moira Walley-Beckett (Breaking Bad) and
It is estimated that the wedding will set Pippa (and her dad) back around £247,000 Pippa Middleton's wedding by numbers: 350 guests, 233 bottles of champagne and a very pricey marquee Pippa Middleton's wedding to suave James Matthews is set to be a rather lavish affair - with even the outside toilets being
It’s been 14 years since the original Love Actually hit the big screen.
A big swirling bucket of the latest rumors, celebrity news and Hollywood gossip.
The pop star and season-one “American Idol” champion will join longtime coaches Blake Shelton and Adam Levine for the NBC talent-competition series’ spring 2018 cycle.
"Dance Moms" star Abby Lee Miller has been sentenced to one year and a day in federal prison for bankruptcy fraud and for bringing $120,000 worth of Australian currency into the country without reporting it.
Emily VanCamp married her Revenge co-star Josh Bowman over the weekend.
During National Women’s Health Week, May 13-19, 2018, the National Blood Clot Alliance (NBCA) is working with the Alexandra L. Rowan Memorial Foundation to provide women with life-saving information about birth control and blood clots, and to help them determine, along with their doctor, their risk for
Miley Cyrus stopped by Radio Disney to promote her new single “Malibu.”
Actress Jerrika Hinton talks about her decision to leave “Grey’s Anatomy,” her new HBO series, and why you shouldn’t expect to see Edwards back in Seattle any time soon...
A look at the life of Pippa Middleton, the younger sister of the Duchess of Cambridge.
Amy Schumer and Goldie Hawn in a scene from "Snatched."
The former American Idol contestant and Roc Nation Latin artist just released her first music video for her original song, "Happy."
Younes Bendjima, Kourtney Kardashian, and Younes Bendjima, Kourtney Kardashian, and Younes Bendjima, Kourtney Kardashian, and Younes Bendjima, Kourtney Kardashian, and Younes Bendjima, Kourtney Kardashian, and Younes Bendjima, Kourt
It’s been a while since I’ve written a post about a reality show, but I’m back!
Life of Kylie premieres on E! Thursday, July 6, at 10 p.m.
It’s a girl!
It’s been a long time coming.
With both shows airing from 8-10 p.m., “American Idol”’s first Monday show on its new network averaged a 1.8 rating in adults 18-49 and 8.4 million viewers.
Country star Thomas Rhett and his wife, Lauren, have adopted a baby girl from Uganda.
Marc Platt is teaming up with the estate of Jonathan Larson to produce a live version of the Tony-winning musical Rent.
A selection of photos from around the world this week:
Miranda Kerr and Evan Spiegel at the 2015 Victoria's Secret Fashion Show.
It’s almost time.
She’s one of reality TV’s most famousTrademarkiaTrademarkiaTrademarkiaTrademarkiaTrademarkiaTrademarkiaTrademarkia:Trademarkia:Trademarkia:Trademarkia:Trademarkia:Trademarkia:Trademarkia:Trademarkia:Trademarkia:Trademarkia:Trademarkia:Trademarkia:Trademarkia:Trademarkia:Trademarkia:Trademarkia:Trademarkia:Trademarkia:Trademarkia:Trademarkia:Trademarkia:Trademarkia:Trademarkia
All images subject to copyright.
Miley Cyrus threw a birthday party for her mother, Niall Horan announced his first solo album, and Maroon 5 paid tribute to Prince at this year’s Wango Tango.
It's a big night for one Direction fans.
This Is Us returns this fall, but on a new night: Thursday.
Melissa McCarthy hosts Saturday Night Live for the fifth time.
Chrissy Teigen Celebrates 'All the People' Who Help Her 'Be the Best Mother I Can Possibly Be'
Lionel Richie will join Katy Perry, Luke Bryan and Ryan Seacrest on the new season of American Idol.
A family heading to birthday celebrations in Las Vegas say they were kicked off a JetBlue flight after an argument over a birthday cake they had brought onto the plane.
Ryan Murphy’s horror anthology Scream Queens will not be returning for a second season.
The couple celebrated the impending arrival of their baby boy with a jungle-themed baby shower over the weekend.
Kylie Minogue says she's the 'Freedom of Being Single' and that some romances she could have done without.
Fox TV Group chairmen Dana Walden and Gary Newman opened up about American Idol’s move to ABC.
Drake took his cousin to the high school prom in Memphis, Tennessee.
A big swirling bucket of the latest rumors, celebrity news and Hollywood gossip.
This Is Us fans have been waiting a long time to find out how Jack died.
It's that time of year again.
Tyler Henry?
Bottoms up!
Bristol Palin Meyer and her husband, Dakota Meyer, have welcomed their second daughter together, Atlee Bay Meyer.
"I'm not full enough right now to recover from that."
"Maybe in the next six months," Peta, who is already mom to 1-year-old son Shai with Maks, told ET's Deidre Behar. "Maybe in the next six months," Peta, who is already mom to 1-year-old son Shai with Maks,
Iggy Azalea knows a thing or two about having a good time at Paris Hilton's house.
Singer Elle King has announced that she and her husband have split up.
A selection of photos from around the world this week:
The latest "Pirates" movie could be in jeopardy.
As the world waits to see what Kate Middleton will wear to her wedding to Prince William, what should the rest of the wedding party look like?
The winner of this year's Strictly Come Dancing has been announced, with professional dancer Val Chmerkovskiy taking home the glitterball trophy.
All images are copyrighted.
As controversy continues to swirl around former "Dance Moms" coach Abby Lee Miller, her replacement Cheryl Burke is speaking out.
Miss USA 2017: Kra McCullough, Miss District of Columbia.
A six-year-old cancer patient has joked Prince William is "too old for her to marry" as he visited her in hospital.
Who is Rory's baby's father?
All pictures copyrighted.
A selection of photos from around the world this week:
The actor who plays Marvel’s Agents of SHIELD director Phil Coulson tells The Hollywood Reporter that his character may still be alive despite being killed off in Friday’s season five finale.
If you’re a fan of reality TV, you’re in for a shock.
Katharine McPhee and David Foster are engaged.
A selection of photos from around the world this week:
The world’s most famous bridesmaid has arrived!
All images are copyrighted.
If you’re like me, you’re always on the hunt for the best way to layer your makeup.
It’s not over yet.
Drake wins 13 Billboard Music Awards, beating Adele’s record of 12.
Find out more about TrendolizerTM at get.trendolizer.com
Brad Pitt Plays Big Questions With Stephen Colbert!
All images subject to copyright.
It’s been 25 years since the return of David Lynch’s cult classic Twin Peaks.
All photographs are copyrighted.
It’s not over yet.
Hilary Duff has shared a photo of her son Luca picking strawberries in California.
Jimmy Fallon has broken his silence about his interview with Donald Trump last September, saying he was “devastated” with all the backlash he faced.
The Keepers, a new true crime series from Netflix, explores the unsolved murder of a nun in Baltimore in 1969.
Check out the full list of nominees for the 2017 Billboard Music Awards below.
Watch the bizarre exchange below.
Keeping Up with the Kardashians star Scott Disick has been spotted with 19-year-old actress Bella Thorne.
It was a night we'll never forget.
The 2017 Billboard Music Awards took place on Sunday, May 14, at T-Mobile Arena in Las Vegas.
A selection of photos from around the world this week:
The world’s most famous bridesmaid has arrived!
"I am profoundly sad and heartbroken to report that my husband, Roger Ailes, passed away this morning."
One Direction’s Harry Styles breaks into song with James Corden on The Late Late Show!
A selection of photos from around the world this week:
Illustrations by Anna Sudit.
One of the stars of MTV’s Rob & Big has paid tribute to her former co-star who died earlier this month.
With just five days to go before her wedding, Pippa Middleton took some time out of last-minute wedding preparations on Monday to attend a top London spa.
Robin Wright made headlines last year when she said she wasn't being paid the same as costar Kevin Spacey.
If you’ve ever wondered who abducted and murdered a nun in the 1970s, then you’ve come to the right place. White: My access point was personal connection: My aunt went to Archbishop Keough High School and was Sister Cathy’s student, so she always had a personal connection.
Mellie Grant is officially the new president of the United States, but she's not the most powerful person in the world.
Rachel Lindsay, the first black lead of the long-running franchise, is speaking out about how her own finale was edited.
A selection of photos from around the world this week:
All images are copyrighted.
"I'm not even doing it to get in shape."
If you’ve ever wondered what it’s like to be a leader in a democracy, you’ve come to the right place.
Pop star Kesha has opened up about being body-shamed online.
All photographs courtesy of AFP, EPA, Getty Images and Reuters
Brad Pitt is "devastated" by the deaths of Soundgarden frontman Chris Cornell and film executive Brad Grey.
The Real Housewives of New Jersey star celebrates her 45th birthday with family by her side as she waits for her husband to come home.
If you're a fan of the hit US sitcom Crazy Ex-Girlfriend, then you'll know what I'm talking about.
A selection of photos from around the world this week:
Steve Harvey is being sued by his second ex-wife Mary Shackelford, E!
Mellie Grant has been sworn in as the first female president of the United States.
Kris Jenner has offered to be Kim Kardashian’s surrogate for her third child after being told she’s healthy enough to carry a baby.
We caught up with Lea Michele, star of the hit US TV show Glee, to find out more about her character, Rachel Berry, and her school days.
In an interview with Deadline, Riverdale creator and executive producer Jon Favreau confirmed that the long-running relationship between Archie and Betty will be brought to life on the show.
In advance of hosting the MTV VMAs on Sunday, Katy Perry has dropped the music video to her Taylor Swift feud song, "Swish Swish."
Chris Cornell's family believes his suicide may have been an accident.
Kourtney Kardashian Shows Off 'Postpartum While Breastfeeding' Style more celeb sightings Adam Sandler Joined By Wife and Daughters at Netflix's Spaceman Premiere celebrity kids Halle Berry Shares Rare Photos with Son Maceo, 10, After Getting 'Cool Mom' Points celebrity selfies Kristin Cavallari, New Share PDA Photos After
Dwayne "The Rock" Johnson made a surprise appearance on The Tonight Show on Tuesday.
Lena Dunham has been forced to cancel her speaking tour because of her endometriosis surgery.
This is a text widget, which allows you to add text or HTML to your sidebar.
It’s all about the talking!
If you grew up in the 1990s, you'll probably have heard of a nostalgia brand.
A selection of photos from around the world this week:
Kendall Jenner wore a nude see-through outfit to the airport after she sported a barely-there gown that left little to the imagination at the Met Gala earlier this month.
Taylor Swift dominated the red carpet at Sunday night’s Billboard Music Awards in Los Angeles, wearing a dress made for dancing.
All images are copyrighted.
Watch Katy Perry explain the meaning of "Swish Swish" on The Tonight Show.
Two women in their 70s from the Baltimore suburb of Owings Mills are working together to solve a decades-old murder.
Beyoncé’s most inspiring quotes about motherhood.
Mel B got choked up when her grandfather came through for her during a reading.
The reality star is expecting her first child with husband William Tell.
The sequel to “Wonder Woman” is moving up its release date.
Princess Charlotte and Prince George were everywhere at the royal wedding of Princess Eugenie and Jack Brooksbank.
Prince Harry and Meghan Markle's relationship may be one of the most talked-about in the British royal family, but it turns out the couple did not attend one of their closest family weddings.
The Duchess of Cambridge helped smooth out Pippa Middleton’s dress as the bride entered the church for her wedding to James Matthews at St.
A selection of photos from around the world this week:
Watch Katy Perry explain the meaning of "Swish Swish" on The Tonight Show.
Lady Gaga has paid tribute to her friend Sonja Durham, who died from cancer on Sunday.
She’s one of the longest-serving female cast members on the show.
The "Keeping Up with the Kardashians" star joked with Chrissy Teigen earlier this month that she wanted her entire family to go to a John Legend concert.
A big swirling bucket of the latest rumors, celebrity news and Hollywood gossip.
It is hard to know where to begin with a revival of one of television’s most iconic shows.
It's hard to get an invite to a wedding.
Prince Harry and Meghan Markle were photographed arriving at Pippa Middleton and James Matthews‘ wedding reception in Bucklebury, England, on Saturday, May 20.
A daily briefing on what matters in the music industry
It's been a long time coming, but it's finally here!
From the scene: Drake accepts the Top Male Artist award in Las Vegas.
What happened behind the scenes on Saturday Night Live last night?
A selection of photos from around the world this week:
A selection of photos from around the world this week:
Country star Sam Hunt opens up about life with his new wife, Hannah Lee Fowler, ahead of the Billboard Music Awards Sunday night.
A selection of photos from around the world this week:
In an extended interview with The Hollywood Reporter, Today co-host Billy Bush reflects on the scandal that cost him his job.
Christopher Wallace, Jr.
A documentary about a Baltimore priest accused of sexually abusing teenage boys in the 1960s and 1970s has led to a lot of change in the case.
All images are copyrighted.
Are you ready for a new romance?
As Johnny Depp prepares to be inducted into the Rock and Roll Hall of Fame, a look back at the actor’s early career.
Glen Powell says he and Anyone But You Costar Sydney Sweeney Are 'Trying to Find the Next Thing to Make Together'
Pippa Middleton and James Matthews are set to honeymoon at The Brando island resort in French Polynesia.
All pictures courtesy Nick Cannon.
A selection of photos from around the world this week:
It's not every day you get to buy a mansion for $18 million.
At least 22 people have been killed and dozens more injured after a suicide bomber blew himself up at Ariana Grande's concert in Manchester, England.
Zack Snyder is taking a break from Justice League to deal with the sudden death of his daughter.
A movie based on a photo of Rihanna and Lupita Nyong’o that went viral on Twitter is coming to Netflix.
If you’re a fan of ballroom dancing, ‘Dancing with the Stars’ and Norvell have something in common.
"Words cannot express our sorrow for the victims and families harmed in this senseless attack."
It's that time of year again.
If you’ve ever wanted to know who Justin Theroux is, you’ve come to the right place.
It’s all about the beard!
A big swirling bucket of the latest rumors, celebrity news and Hollywood gossip.
Miley Cyrus has been spotted out and about in New York in a pretty pink dress.
Jamie Oliver says he's "taking the high ground" in his feud with Gordon Ramsay.
All photographs courtesy Laurel & Wolf and PBteen.
Tom is an award-winning journalist, novelist and screenwriter.
All images are copyrighted.
The 51-year-old director took to Twitter to show his appreciation for the "outpouring of support" he and his family have received since he announced that he was taking a step back from helming Justice League following his daughter's suicide.
Harry Styles has put his $8 million Hollywood Hills bachelor pad up for sale.
All images subject to copyright.
The Weeknd has been called out on social media for dissing ex-girlfriend Selena Gomez.
Here’s a round-up of some of the more interesting cameos in The Last Jedi.
She’s one of Hollywood’s most famous liars.
Jordan Fisher and Lindsay Arnold have been crowned champions of Dancing with the Stars.
A big swirling bucket of the latest rumors, celebrity news and Hollywood gossip.
Jackson Dean's new album, One Helluva Time, is out now.
The daughter of Cleveland Cavaliers forward JR Smith has been released from the hospital.
Check out the first full trailer for “Game of Thrones” Season 7 below.
The latest TV remake of Dirty Dancing has failed to impress critics.
She was the runner-up on The Bachelor and the runner-up on The Bachelorette.
Katie Holmes and Jamie Foxx will not be tying the knot in Paris next year, despite a report.
Here is an example of a ticket confirmation email that AMC sent you when you purchased your ticket.
If you’ve ever wondered what it’s like to be a Teen Mom, then you’ve come to the right place!
A selection of the best news photographs from the past 24 hours.
Val Kilmer is returning to reprise his role as Maverick in Top Gun 2.
In the season 5 finale of The 100, Clarke (Eliza Taylor), Bellamy (Bob Morley), and the survivors of the human race made it off the planet just in time to escape nuclear fallout.
If you want to know how to get more followers on Instagram, here are some things you might want to know.
Luann de Lesseps is set to appear on Watch What Happens Live next week.
The London premiere of The Mummy has been called off, while the Sundance Film Festival: London will go ahead as planned.
We Should Listen to Palestinians, Not Selena Gomez (Or Other Cele...
Becca Kufrin is engaged to Garrett Yrigoyen.
Brad Pitt told Indian actor Shah Rukh Khan that he doesn’t have the moves to star in Bollywood films.
The latest trailer for the eighth and final season of Game of Thrones has been released.
Johnny Depp as Captain Jack Sparrow in "Pirates of the Caribbean: Dead Men Tell No Tales."
All photographs courtesy of E!
A judge has dismissed contempt of court charges against a former reporter for an eastern Iowa news station who took video of a court appearance by "The Bachelor" star Chris Soules.
Sophia Bush is leaving Chicago P.D.
It’s official: George Clooney and Amal Clooney are expecting twins!
All images are copyrighted.
A former real-estate investor and "Property Wars" star was sentenced to 17 years in prison for involvement in multiple fraud schemes that targeted more than 200 victims and resulted in more than $30 million in losses.
All images subject to copyright.
Miranda Kerr is an Australian model who has a net Worth of $60 million.
It's not unusual for a first lady to wear the same outfit for every state dinner.
If you've never done a leg press before, here's what you need to know:
For the past month, we've been all brows all the time here on Into The Gloss Glossier's latest innovation. For the past month, we've been all brows all the time here on Into The Gloss Glossier's latest innovation.
The cast of one of America's most popular sitcoms got a little help from one of their own.
What do you do if you can’t sing?
She plays Nicolas Cage's love interest in the new film Captain Corelli.
Ariana Grande has written a letter to her fans in the wake of the tragedy at her concert in Manchester this week, where 22 people were killed by a suicide bomber.
Kourtney Kardashian has some things she needs to change in her life.
Paris Jackson was mistaken for a homeless person on the set of her new TV series.
Chris Cornell was laid to rest Friday at a private ceremony at Los Angeles’ Hollywood Forever Cemetery, with his band mates, celebrity friends, family and grunge peers among those who paid their respects to the Soundgarden singer.
All images are copyrighted.
It's 25 years since David Lynch's cult TV series "Twin Peaks" first aired on ABC.
A selection of photos from around the world this week:
Jamie Foxx is under fire from deaf stars and activists Nyle DiMarco and Marlee Matlin for allegedly mocking sign language during his recent appearance on "The Tonight Show."
Chris Brown has put reports he's in a child support battle with his baby mum Nia Guzman behind him as he wishes his daughter Royalty happy birthday today.
What's a long weekend without a little tandem bicycling with your best friend?
Pregnant Nikki Reed-Took Fashion Tips from Kim Kardashian on Maternity Style on Date Night With Ian Somerhalder!
Ariana Grande's brother Frankie Grande has sent a message of support to his sister's fans, following the terror attack at her concert in Manchester last Monday.
All images are copyrighted.
Watch Vanessa Hudgens and Ashley Tisdale Twerk It Out In This Sizzling Instagram Video This looks like one helluva pool party.
The new trailer for the raunchy comedy, formerly titled “Rock That Body,” has been released.
"I will do everything in my power to ensure this never happens again."
Maci Bookout is worried about the father of her oldest child.
Jessica Chastain has spoken out against the lack of female representation in films at the Cannes Film Festival.
Robert Pattinson revealed that he almost got fired from the role which made him a star in "Twilight" because he took the part too seriously.
In a new sneak peek of the Sunday, November 5, episode of Keeping Up With the Kardashians, Kourtney Kardashian’s ex sits down with the reality star to explain the “Cannes extravaganza.”
Olivia Newton-John has announced she is postponing June dates on her North American tour due to another battle with breast cancer.
Michael Nance, who appeared on Emily Maynard’s season of The Bachelorette, has died at the age of 31.
If you’ve ever wondered how one of the world’s biggest pop stars manages to look so bodacious, you’ve come to the right place.
Two years after Brad Pitt and Angelina Jolie announced they were splitting up, a judge has reportedly declared both Pitt and Jolie to be legally single.
It’s been almost a year since Kanye West and Taylor Swift had an awkward conversation on Snapchat, and now Kim Kardashian has spoken out about it for the first time.
The Second Wives Club is a new reality TV show on E!
To make a neat and tidy top knot bun, comb your hair back from your forehead and pull it into a high ponytail, close to the top of your head.
Prairie Me, Prairie Me, Prairie Me.
It's been a roller-coaster ride of a summer.
Whether you're heading to the studio to practice your Half Moon or not, her low-key look is the perfect ensemble to run your Sun. Whether you're headed to the studio to practice your Half Moon like Ambrosio or not, her low-key look is the perfect ensemble to run your Sun
Robin Wright is best known for her role as Claire Underwood in the Netflix series House of Cards.
Spider-Man star Andrew Garfield may be best known for his role as Peter Parker in the Marvel Cinematic Universe, but the actor is also an accomplished drag queen.
Newlyweds Pippa Middleton and James Matthews are enjoying their honeymoon in Australia.
Nicole Kidman has revealed that she and husband Keith Urban are very strict about what they can and can’t do in their home.
It's one of the most infamous feuds in reality TV history.
All images are copyrighted.
All images are copyrighted.
Pop star Katy Perry says she's trying to connect with her real self to beat mental problems following her split from Orlando Bloom.
All images are copyrighted.
It's been six years in the making.
A big swirling bucket of the latest rumors, celebrity news and Hollywood gossip.
It's the end of the road for one of America's most popular reality TV couples.
If you're looking to shorten a pair of jeans, here's how to do it:
She's a country music star, she's married to a professional hockey player, and she's a big fan of mani-pedi!
"She's going to call me aunt."
She's the first black Bachelorette in the show's history, and now she's got a new hairstyle!
A big swirling bucket of the latest rumors, celebrity news and Hollywood gossip.
In the wake of a sex scandal on Bachelor in Paradise, Corinne Olympios says she is a victim.
Pop star Britney Spears has written a letter of love to her LGBTQ fans.
It’s not over yet.
All photographs  Pauley Perrette.
We caught up with The Hills producer Justin Bobby Brescia about Lauren Conrad’s refusal to talk about the sex tape, Heidi Montag’s reconciliation with Spencer Pratt, and Lauren Conrad’s refusal to talk about the sex tape.
All images are copyrighted.
A big swirling bucket of the latest rumors, celebrity news and Hollywood gossip.
It’s that time of year again when celebrities write tell-all books.
For those wondering how much Taylor Swift is still enjoying keeping her love life almost completely private, People has an update.
If you're a fan of reality TV, you'll know that it's all about the ups and downs.
What to wear to a beach wedding, here is a useful guide to beach wedding dressing code for guests.
Flip or Flop co-stars Tarek and Christina El Moussa are producing a new reality show with their business partner Bryan and Maira Segal.
All images are copyrighted.
Hugh Grant's wife has given birth to their second child.
From Kim Kardashian to Angelina Jolie, celebrities' pregnancies are on display on red carpets, the streets of New York and L.A.
Ariana Grande’s One Love Manchester benefit concert will be broadcast live in the U.S.
It's that time of year again. Our television screens are filled with revivals and remakes these days, including Roseanne, which returned on ABC with blockbuster ratings, the GIF-able Fab Five of Queer Eye on Netflix and the latest, Netflix's Lost in Space, a big-budget reboot of
A selection of photos from around the world this week:
She's one of the most famous people in the world right now.
All posts are copyrighted.
A big swirling bucket of the latest rumors, celebrity news and Hollywood gossip.
All images are copyrighted.
"Botched" star Paul Nassif and his co-star Terry Dubrow discuss the changing face of plastic surgery.
A big swirling bucket of the latest rumors, celebrity news and Hollywood gossip.
All photographs by Torwai Suebsri / 123rf.com
Joan Rivers, who died in 2014 at the age of 81, was a long-time supporter of the animal rights group PETA.
Is it a feud?
Chance The Rapper Wants HBO To Cancel “Real Time With Bill Maher” After N-Word Controversy.
Gregg Allman was laid to rest Saturday afternoon in Macon, Georgia, where the Allman Brothers Band singer was buried near his brother Duane Allman and band mate Berry Oakley.
A selection of photos from around the world this week:
"I'm human."
The Duke and Duchess of Cambridge and Prince Harry have been criticised for their lack of formal wear.
Ariana Grande and Miley Cyrus perform at One Love Manchester.
Jennifer Aniston looked like she was having a ball at the Screen Actors Guild Awards on Sunday night.
I’ve been a fan of mystery shows for a long time.
Usher missed Sunday's One Love Manchester concert to spend time with his son.
If you’ve ever been asked the question, “Are you a bridesmaid?
The Wizarding World of Harry Potter at Universal Orlando Resort will have a brand-new addition in 2019.
Is Tyler Henry the Real Deal?
Meghan, the Duchess of Sussex, has been sharing some of her healthy eating tips on social media ahead of her wedding to Prince Harry.
If you’re a fan of a TV series, there’s a good chance you’ve had your fill of it.
It's a boy!
This Is Us stars Mandy Moore, Justin Hartley, Chrissy Metz and Milo Ventimiglia stop by Billy on the Street.
The world’s most famous couple have become parents.
The feud between Bethenny Frankel and Ramona Singer on The Real Housewives of New York City has come to an end.
Khloe Kardashian has voiced fears she may not be able to get pregnant after receiving unexpected news from her fertility doctor.
It's the kind of love story you'd expect to see in a film.
BBC News takes a look back at the life and times of Sir Winston Churchill.
Jaime Pressly opens up about how expecting twins is a whole different world than just being pregnant with one baby.
It’s one of the biggest decisions of a young woman’s life.
Liam Payne has revealed some very funny stories about James Corden at the 2017 GLAMOUR Awards.
Country star Tyler Hubbard and his wife Hayley have welcomed their first child, a baby girl named Olivia Rose Hubbard.
It's pretty common to hear pregnant women express how nervous they are about giving birth.
Selena Gomez wore a see-through dress on a date night with The Weeknd as it was reported she opted to go braless.
A Hollywood actor has spoken out about body shaming in the film industry.
Will The Royals return for a fifth season?
Check out Gwyneth Paltrow’s new playroom and tell us what you think.
Valentine’s Day is just around the corner.
The 23-year-old singer is set to perform in Paris, France, on Wednesday, her first tour stop since a suicide bomber killed 22 people following her... The 23-year-old singer is set to perform in Paris, France, on Wednesday, her first tour stop since a suicide bomber killed 22 people following
It’s been a year since George and Amal Clooney welcomed twins into the world.
The prison dramedy has long been renewed for a seventh season, and executive producer Tara Herrmann tells The Hollywood Reporter that Piper’s release has long been on the writers’ minds, since Orange Is the New Black is based on the story and memoir of the same name by Piper Kerman, who served
Bette Midler, Ben Platt andNatasha, Pierre and the Great Comet of 1812 were among the winners at this year’s Tony Awards.
The singer has been ordered to pay her estranged husband $30,000/month in temporary spousal support.
Pop star Katy Perry has been nominated for three Grammy Awards, including record of the year for "I Kissed a Girl."
Happy birthday, Kim Kardashian!
The 2017 CMT Music Awards might have downsized in space with its move from Bridgestone Arena to Music City Center to accommodate the Nashville Predators' run for the Stanley Cup, but country music stars and fans still came out in force to celebrate country’s most successful videos Wednesday night.
Bethenny Frankel on the Challenges that Made Her Want to Help Women The Real Housewives of New York City mogul showing gratitude to her loved ones after her allergic reaction.
Check out our exclusive video from Chloe Lukasiak's 16th birthday party!
Ten years after The Sopranos ended, we still don’t know what happened next.
The couple met in May 2015 when Lipinski presented Kapostasy with an award at the Sports Emmys.
Poussey Washington, played by Samira Wiley, was killed off in last week’s episode of “Orange is the New Black.”
Emily Blunt and James Corden go back into the woods to do a no-cuts, 14 song, 7-set sprint through Shakespeare’s most indelible love story via classic hits from the likes of Ludacris, Adele, Whitney Houston, Bruno Mars, Britney Spears, Nazareth, and DJ Jazzy Jeff & the
A big swirling bucket of the latest rumors, celebrity news and Hollywood gossip.
"The Bachelor" star Nick Viall has spoken out about his split from fiancee Vanessa Grimaldi.
If you're looking to impress the ladies on a date with Mike Shouhed, you've come to the right place.
The world’s largest butt implants are up for discussion on a new reality TV show.
If you’re looking to add a little something extra to your beauty routine, then you’ve come to the right place.
It's been more than 20 years, but Ice Cube is back.
The single-camera comedy, starring Jessica St. Clair and Lennon Parham, has been cancelled after three seasons.
Check out Scoot Teasley's video for "This Truck Still Misses You" below.
'Teen Mom 2' star Jenelle Evans and her son have been apart for five weeks this year, but at the end of May, she was able to travel with Jace now that summer has arrived.
Jennifer Lawrence is safe after a private plane in which she was riding was forced to make an emergency landing in Buffalo, New York on Saturday.
President Donald Trump's daughter Ivanka and son-in-law Eric attended a baby shower for their sister-in-law in New York City on Saturday.
Courtney Love stars as a distressed and conflicted Kitty Menendez in the expertly melodramatic trailer for Lifetime’s upcoming original movie, Menendez: Blood Brothers.
Nick Gordon, the former boyfriend of Bobby Brown and Whitney Houston’s daughter Bobbi Kristina Brown and the man found “legally responsible” for her death, was arrested Saturday in Florida on a domestic violence charge.
All images are copyrighted.
It’s been a year since Christina Grimmie was shot and killed at a concert in Orlando, Florida.
It’s been a long time coming, but we finally have our first look at Diane.
Voting is now open for this year's TV Scoop Awards.
Cameron Diaz is an American actress, model and voice of Princess Fiona in the Shrek films.
It’s that time of year again!
El prximo 30 de agosto, el rgano de un rgano de un rgano de un rgano de un rgano de un rgano de un rgano de un rgano de un
Bachelor in Paradise star Bekah Martinez is pregnant with her first child with boyfriend Grayston Leonard.
“It is hard and there is a level of viciousness that I was not expecting,” the first daughter, 35, said on Fox News’ Fox & Friends on Monday, June 12.
I'm a sucker for cheap fashion.
Colton and Tia Status: They’re friends, and they really want us to know it.
Stay up-to-date with the latest news from the world of sport with our weekly newsletter.
It's one of the most popular shows on TV right now.
In the new film Rough Night, Ryan Cooper plays a stripper who is accidentally killed by his co-stars.
"Who doesn't love a shotgun wedding?"
It’s called friendship.
While fans may know the lyrics to Justin Bieber‘s guest spot on the Luis Fonsi and Daddy Yankee hit “Despacito” word for word, it seems that the star isn’t quite up to speed.
We Should Listen to Palestinians, Not Selena Gomez (Or Other Cele...
A big swirling bucket of the latest rumors, celebrity news and Hollywood gossip.
The studio behind “The Bachelor” and “The Bachelorette” has suspended production on a dating show amid allegations of sexual misconduct.
Josh Groban has revealed that he and Katy Perry went on a secret date.
If you’re a fan of classic fairytales, you’re going to love this one!
Meek Mill and The-Dream Send an Empowering Message to Young Black America in New Video Complex
It’s been a busy week for the 21-year-old singer.
It's a boy!
A popular singer has been arrested on child pornography charges.
In the wake of the “worst in Paradise” scandal that shut down production on the ABC series, contestant Corinne Olympios has hired top Hollywood lawyer Marty Singer, Variety has confirmed.
In case you missed it, here's your chance to meet Marie Claire's July cover star!
It's been a year and a half since Fifth Harmony's Camila Cabello left the band.
Pink and husband Carey Hart have been sharing some of their family snaps on social media, and we can't get enough!
It’s not over yet.
Another Bachelor in Paradise producer may be stepping forward.
Bachelor in Paradise alums Evan Bass and Carly Waddell are set to tie the knot on ABC Tuesday when the fourth season returns for the second half of its two-night premiere.
It's graduation season!
If you're looking for a way to make your nose pop on your big day, here's how to do it!
It was supposed to be one of the most touching and beautiful days of her life.
In this week's episode of TVtropes, we look at the tropes of the Death Trap.
The lawyer for Corinne Olympios, who was at the centre of the alleged misconduct that led to production being suspended on the ABC reality series, is speaking out hours after producer Warner Bros.
Voting is now open for this year's TV Scoop Awards.
Voting is now open for this year's TV Scoop Awards.
The Real Housewives of New York City stars Bethenny Frankel and Jill Zarin have had their fair share of beef over the years.
Will Famously Single return for a third season?
When Shania Twain released her second album, Come On Over, in 1998, it was the beginning of a new era for the country star.
In the wake of a series of sexual assault allegations against singer-songwriter Lizzo, we take a look back at her career.
She was suspended for 10 days last year over comments she made on a podcast about the network's CO vaccine policy and former President Barack Obama's racial identity.
After six seasons as a cohost on The Talk, Aisha Tyler is leaving the CBS daytime show. After six seasons as a cohost on The Talk, Aisha Tyler is leaving the CBS daytime show.
The cast and crew of Bachelor in Paradise will return to the set this summer.
Happy birthday, North West!
A fugitive from justice due to his role in the Five/Nine Hack and for murdering Sharon Knowles (Michele Hicks), Tyrell spent almost the entirety of season two on the sidelines.
Paul Nassif is a plastic surgeon who has a net worth of $40 million. Nassif also appeared in the first three seasons of "The Real Housewives of Beverly Hills" alongside his now ex-wife Adrienne Maloof, who was a main cast member.
As Nicole Kidman announced that she is expecting her first child with husband Tom Cruise, here's a look back at Kidman's career so far.
The couple shares daughters Sunday Rose, 9, and Faith Margaret, 7.
Beauty routines are not just for girls — guys like to look good too.
Rich Kids Of Beverly Hills star Dorothy Wang is one of the stars of VH1's Famously Single, but is she still single?
A Golden Globe-nominated actress explains why she jumped at the chance to play a serial killer in her new TV series.
Jada Pinkett Smith is calling the Tupac Shakur biopic “All Eyez on Me”  888-282-0476 888-282-0476 888-282-0476 888-282-0476 888-282-0476 888-282-0476 888-282-0476 888-282-0476 888-282-0476 888-282-0476 888-282-0476 888-282-0476 888-282-0476 888-282-0476 888-282-0476 888-282-0476 888-282-0476 888-282-0476 888-282-0476 888-282-0476 888-282-0476 888-282-0476 888-282-0476 888-282-0476 888-282-0476 888-282-0476 888-282-0476 888-282-0476 888-282-0476 888-282-0476 888-282-0476 888-282-0476 888-282-0476 888-282-0476 888-282-0476 888-282-0476 888-282-0476 888-282-0476 888-282-0476 888-282-0476 888-282-0476 888-282-0476
It's one of the most famous lines in TV history.
She’s the most-followed person on Twitter.
The Real Housewives of Beverly Hills' Lisa Vanderpump reconnects with her late grandmother on an upcoming episode of Hollywood Medium.
How many times do you see your best friends wearing matching outfits to dinner?
Are you ready for a new romance?
All images are copyrighted.
Scary Spice is not the only one scared.
If you want to prevent wrinkles from appearing, here are eight tips from a doctor and a makeup artist.
Carrie Fisher died from sleep and a combination of other undetermined factors, the Los Angeles County coroner’s office confirmed to the Associated Press.
The Duke and Duchess of Cambridge were joined by their children as they attended the annual Trooping the Colour ceremony at Buckingham Palace on Saturday.
The lawyer for one of the stars of “In Paradise” says his client has been the victim of a media witch hunt.
Bachelor in Paradise star Evan Bass explains the protocol for alcohol on set and the way he believes consent should be dealt with on and off the reality show.
Game of Thrones actress Sophie Turner and DNCE singer Joe Jonas have announced that they are separating.
It’s official: Beyonce has given birth to twins!
It’s the season of love for one Grandfathered star.
All images subject to copyright.
The first wave of nominees for the 2018 Teen Choice Awards was announced today (June 13), with the biggest stars of music, movies, television and sports from the past year receiving nods.
BBC Sport takes a look at some of the key stories of the week.
The former First Lady has revealed that she still hosts regular "boot camp weekends" with her friends like she used to, and took to Instagram to share some photos from their most recent meetup.
A selection of photos from around the world this week:
Carrie Fisher had cocaine, methadone, heroin and ecstasy in her system when she died in December, according to an autopsy report released Monday. Carrie Fisher had cocaine, methadone, heroin and ecstasy in her system when she died in December, according to an autopsy report released Monday.
Alyssa Milano is an American actress, producer, and singer who has a net Worth of $4 million.
Drake Bell says he and Josh Peck are still on good terms, despite their Twitter spat last year.
Greenstart Capital offers startup business loans with no revenue requirements.
A selection of photos from around the world this week:
If you’re a fan of pop music, then you’ve probably heard of Hanson.
How many times have you heard a song that sounds so much better with a different singer singing it?
Joe Manganiello gushes about his wife and opens up about their relationship in the April 2018 issue of Cigarnado magazine.
Find out more about TrendolizerTM at get.trendolizer.com
Check out the winners of the 2017 BET Awards below.
Do you know how many seconds it takes for a microwave to heat up?
Summer love is sure to happen fast as the hit series Bachelor in Paradise returns for Season 5! Summer love is sure to happen fast as the hit series Bachelor in Paradise returns for Season 5!
Grey’s Anatomy star Jesse Williams and his estranged wife have been granted joint custody of their two children.
BBC Sport takes a look at some of the key stories of the week.
"I don't have time for people who talk the talk but don't walk the walk."
Find out more about TrendolizerTM at get.trendolizer.com
The Bachelor in Paradise controversy is far from over if you ask Corinne Olympios‘ legal team.
Is this the end of an era in Hollywood?
Chris Cornell’s daughter has written an emotional letter to her late father.
The death of rapper Prodigy has been ruled an accident.
Pauly D and Aubrey O’Day used to date on Famously Single.
All images are copyrighted.
A big swirling bucket of the latest rumors, celebrity news and Hollywood gossip.
Pretty Little Liarsrevealed one of the series' biggest lingering questions on Tuesday night: Who killed Charlotte (Vanessa Ray)?
The couple met in May 2015 when Lipinski presented Kapostasy with an award at the Sports Emmys.
Voting is now open for this year's TV Scoop Awards.
It's that time of year again - the Oscars.
If you’ve ever wondered what it takes to be a smart girl, Jimmy Fallon has the answer.
Kim Kardashian and Kanye West have hired a surrogate to help make it happen, because Kardashian's doctors strongly advised her not to go through a third pregnancy. Kim Kardashian and Kanye West, already the parents of two (North, 4, and Saint, 18 months) and longing for a third, have hired a surrogate
Do you know how many seconds it takes for a microwave to heat up?
Watch The Bachelorette Mondays at 8/7c on ABC.
Anderson Cooper and John Legend have become the latest celebrities to welcome a baby via surrogate.
If you’re a fan of 'Here Comes Honey Boo Boo', you’re in for a treat.
One of the stars of The Bachelor has spoken out for the first time about what happened on set.
Danica Patrick is a strong advocate of healthy living and showing off her "real" body - and she just happens to have rock-solid abs.
Jake Zyrus, the Filipino singer and Glee star formerly known as Charice Pempengco, says life since coming out as transgender has been "surreal."
"I'm like a part of it!"
A big swirling bucket of the latest rumors, celebrity news and Hollywood gossip.
It’s not every day you get to interview Jason Alexander and Jada Pinkett Smith.
"There's no bad blood, but we don't talk all that often."
After splitting from her husband of 11 years, Kate Beckinsale has found love again.
Former MP George Galloway says Labour's Keir Starmer is the worst candidate in the Rochdale by-election.
"Biggest Loser" trainer Bob Harper is back to full health after suffering a heart attack earlier this year.
Bill Cosby is planning to hold a series of town hall meetings starting “sometime in July” to help educate young men and women about sexual violence.
She may not be part of Jersey Shore, but Sammi Giancola is doing just fine with her boyfriend, Christian Biscardi.
A selection of photos from around the world this week:
All images are copyrighted.
Grey's Anatomy fans have been waiting a long time for Addison Montgomery to return.
It's that time of year again.
All photographs courtesy of Herb Sadler.
Ronnie Magro-Ortiz and Malika Haqq have called time on their relationship. Ronnie Magro-Ortiz and Malika Haqq made their relationship official late last year after appearing on E!'s Famously Single.
Iggy Azalea has been called a “moron” by singer Halsey.
It’s been a busy week for the Trump family.
What do you get when you mix a pop star with a film director?
If you've ever wondered what it's like to write for a soap opera, then you've come to the right place.
Johnny Depp has issued an apology for a controversial comment about President Donald Trump, asking, “When was the last time an actor assassinated a president?”
It's that time of year again. Clay Harbor Clay quickly stole Bachelor Nation's heart during his time on Becca's season of "The Bachelorette" but abruptly left the show during a group date.
A reality TV star has enlisted the help of a medium to help her deal with the death of her grandmother.
Donald Trump’s election as the 45th president of the United States in November 2016 shocked the political world.
As part of the launch of AnastasiaDivine's new range of face and body products, I was treated to a one-on-one session with the brand's founder, and face and body expert, AnastasiaDivine.
After a decade in the industry, Miley Cyrus finally feels like she has the "respect" she deserves.
Nancy Grace's fiancé Keith was shot and killed by a construction worker at the wrong place at the wrong time.
The Duggar family may be famous for their reality TV show, Counting On, but when it comes to birth, they’re not your average family.
Stay up-to-date with the biggest entertainment stories.
The couple who are expecting their first child have accused MTV of not wanting to show them as recovering addicts.
In an interview published in the Mail on Sunday, the prince said the time he spent in the army was "the best escape I've ever had."
Happy anniversary!
He's one of the most famous people in the world, but Chris Brown's tempers got the best of him in Los Angeles on Sunday night.
"I'm having the best time, it's your year."
Nick Lachey digs through his family’s trash to find his wife’s lost wedding ring.
Bachelor in Paradise star Corinne Olympios claims she was the victim of sexual misconduct by fellow contestant DeMario Jackson.
DeMario Jackson, one of the stars of Bachelor in Paradise, explains why he feels ABC has been “woke as hell” with how they’ve handled the scandal.
The world's most famous sports reporter has married the man of her dreams.
It’s official!
Oklahoma City Thunder point guard Russell Westbrook will miss the rest of the season after fracturing his hand in Sunday's win over the Los Angeles Clippers.
Serena Williams has responded to John McEnroe’s comments about her being the best tennis player in the world.
The One Tree Hill star surprised his wife by taking her to her first-ever prom.
She's one of the world's most famous pop stars, and now Lady Gaga has revealed how she got into fashion.
It's not every day you get the chance to pay tribute to your mother in a campaign for a new brand.
Tennis player Caroline Wozniacki, swimmer Katie Waterson, gymnast Jessica Ennis, golfer Erin Bez and NFL player Ezekiel Elliott are among the athletes featured in ESPN's annual Body issue.
The teenage daughter of an actor who plays a detective on the Fox series Gotham has been found safe.
Iggy Azalea says Halsey should learn to be less judgmental.
The Real Housewives of New York City took Tribeca, celebrating ten years of laughter, drama and flying prosthetics at a Tribeca TV Festival panel.
Bethenny Frankel's ex-husband Jason Hoppy's net worth is estimated to be $5 million.
Jada Pinkett Smith is best known for her roles in The Matrix sequels and the Madagascar animated film franchise.
Mila Kunis and Ashton Kutcher on the set of "That '70s Show" in 1998.
Khloé Kardashian and Tristan Thompson are reportedly expecting their first child together.
One of the CW’s most popular shows has been renewed for a fifth season.
If you’ve been keeping up with Maci Bookout and her family over the past few months, you might have noticed that she’s been making headlines for a number of different reasons.
After seven seasons of mystery, cliffhangers, and torment by “A,” the Liars finally found out the true identity of Rosewood’s villain... Spencer (Troian Bellisario) has a twin!
Watch The Bachelorette Mondays at 8/7c on ABC.
John McEnroe says his daughters don’t think he can beat Serena Williams.
Steve Carell's gray hair went viral last week, causing people to stop and pay attention. Photos of the actor's gray mane went viral last week, causing people to stop and pay attention.
Chris Cornell's widow says his battle with addiction led to his suicide. Chris Cornell's widow says his battle with addiction led to his suicide: 'He loved his life' — -- The widow of the late singer Chris Cornell said she thinks her husband's battle with addiction prior to his apparent suicide last
It's been a whirlwind year for one Vanderpump Rules couple.
It's that time of year again.
The country pop singer, fashion designer, television star and Tide partner spoke to PEOPLE following her attendance at an event for Loads of Hope: a Tide’s community donation project held last Friday, designed to help give families a fresh start.
How do you end a Hollywood marriage?
It's time to say goodbye to Pretty Little Liars.
Bachelorette and Bachelor in Paradise star Chad Johnson finally opened up about why he thinks he sabotages his relationships with women and how big of a toll his mother’s death took on him.
The technical storage or access is strictly necessary for the legitimate purpose of enabling the use of a specific service explicitly requested by the subscriber or user, or for the sole purpose of carrying out the transmission of a communication over an electronic communications network.
It was a red carpet prank gone wrong.
Kate Middleton Rocks,700 Mod Gucci Dress for Museum Visit
It’s a boy!
It’s not easy being thin, right?
It’s official!
It's that time of year again where we look back at some of the most memorable fashion moments from the past 12 months.
All photographs courtesy Tara Lipinski and Todd Kapostasy.
How do you stop a married woman from sending you a naked photo?
Shgun, Out of Order and Rosie Jones return to our screens this week.
All images are copyrighted.
It's 20 years since Princess Diana died in a car crash in Paris.
Jennifer Lopez and Alex Rodriguez may be one of the most photographed couple in the world, but it turns out they’re not the same person!
For those of you who don’t know, I’m a big fan of Saturday Night Live, and I’ve written a couple of “SNLenium” recaps over the years.
Eric Benét is not a fan of Jay-Z’s new album.
Netflix’s sci-fi series Sense8 has been cancelled after two seasons, but it’s not over yet.
"Pretty Baby" star Brooke Shields posed nude for Calvin Klein ads in the 1980s.
Jay-Z’s mother has come out as a lesbian on the rapper’s new album.
A selection of photos from around the world this week:
The Entourage star tied the knot with his longtime girlfriend, Breanne Racano, on Friday, a rep for the actor confirmed to PEOPLE.
"You egged Solange on, knowin' all along all you had to say you were wrong, you almost went Eric Benét, let the baddest girl in the world get away."
This Is Us is locking in all of its breakout child stars as series regulars for the highly-anticipated second season.
With the news that American Pie star Tara Reid is expecting her first child with husband Thomas Ian Nicholas, we take a look back at some of her best-known acting roles.
Pop star Adele has been forced to cancel the final two shows of her world tour.
Pop star Adele's fans took to social media to show their support for the singer on Saturday night.
Rob Kardashian and Blac Chyna are no longer together.
It's not every day you get to share a birthday message with your best friend.
Rumer Willis is celebrating six months of sobriety.
The 100 was the big winner at this year's Teen Choice Awards.
On what would have been Jenni Rivera’s 48th birthday, her eldest daughter Chiquis shared a sweet birthday message to her mother.
As Paris Fashion Week draws to a close, we take a look back at some of the most memorable looks from this year's shows.
.
The Black Keys drummer Patrick Carney is engaged to singer Michelle Branch.
All images are copyrighted.
Drake Bell breaks down in tears as he pays tribute to ex-girlfriend Stevie Ryan, who died at the age of 33.
Spider-Man: Homecoming feels fresh off the drawing board, as if he was a character with the dew still on him.
Happy 4th of July!
In the wake of a series of sexual assault allegations against singer-songwriter Lizzo, we take a look back at her career.
She’s one of the world’s most famous singers, and now she’s stripping down to her underwear for a fashion shoot.
She’s used to dealing with body shamers.
It’s one of the most romantic letters you’ll ever read.
The black-and-white photograph purportedly taken of Amelia Earhart days after she crash-landed on a remote South Pacific atoll is at the heart of a new History Channel documentary.
Jennifer Lawrence has been accused of cultural appropriation after appearing on the front of Dior’s Cruise 2019 collection.
It's time for the boys of Sixtrack to take the stage in this week's new episode of Boy Band.
Taylor Swift threw an epic Fourth of July party for her incredibly famous showbiz pals over the weekend - but fans have been left scratching their heads at all the stunning photos.
Fashion Week is under way in New York City, with designers showing off their latest looks.
It's been a busy few weeks for one of the stars of Valley Girl.
Rob Kardashian has a few words for TI after the reality star claimed the rapper had a threesome with his ex-fiancée Blac Chyna and T.I.
Kourtney Kardashian and Younes Bendjima are still going strong.
Blush palettes are one of the best ways to add a pop of colour to your face.
I don’t know about you, but I’ve never been a big fan of Truth or Dare.
Do you have a question about this article?
Hollywood star Ryan Reynolds has come to the rescue of a broken-up teenager.
It’s been a long time coming.
Lady Gaga has come out in support of Ed Sheeran after he said he no longer reads Twitter.
"I saw a great guy and he sorted me out, but I did the first year [on Game of Thrones] in that space, figuring out motherhood and going through a weird time personally."
Murder She Wrote's Angela Lansbury is to star in a BBC adaptation of Little Women.
Inspiration 10 tips on how to steal Emily Ratajkowski’s ultra-sexy style
Venus Williams has filed an emergency court order in the wrongful death case brought by the family of a man killed in a car crash involving the tennis star.
Health and fitness expert Bob Harper shares the five ways he has transformed his health since suffering a near-fatal heart attack last year.
Two years after his character Glenn Rhee died on “The Walking Dead,” Steven Yeun still talks to his former co-stars.
Bobby Brown pays tribute to his late daughter Bobbi Kristina on her birthday ahead of the two-year anniversary of her death.
The Dancing with the Stars judge married NHL star Brooks Laich on July 8 in a romantic, outdoor wedding on Lake Coeur d’Alene, Idaho, where Hough spent summer holidays growing up.
A selection of photos from around the world this week:
It's been a long time coming.
Gavin Russom, a founding member of electronic band LCD Soundsystem, has come out as transgender.
It’s official: Logan Paul is in a relationship with Chloe Bennet.
It's that time of year when animal rights activists and celebrities go head-to-head.
Blue Ivy raps on her father's new album.
Ben Affleck's new lady is Saturday Night Live producer Lindsay Shookus.
It's been more than two weeks since Donal Logue's daughter, Jade, went missing.
Jenna Dewan Tatum talks to celebrity medium Tyler Henry about the death of her beloved grandfather.
It’s that time of the week again.
Jordin Sparks is pregnant with her first child with husband Dana Isaiah.
It's not every day you get to say goodbye to your best friend.
How long have Ben Affleck and Lindsay Shookus been together?
As we approach the end of 2018 and the beginning of 2019, it's always good to remember and reflect on all of the new friends you met along the way.
All images are copyrighted.
It’s been almost a year since Carrie Fisher died.
The Royals have spoken publicly about their mother for the first time in a new documentary.
Casse Pope and Rian Dawson are engaged!
Reality TV stars Rob Kardashian and Blac Chyna are currently embroiled in a bitter feud.
All images are copyrighted.
It’s not every day you get a shirtless shirtless shirtless shirtless shirtless shirtless shirtless shirtless shirtless shirtless shirtless shirtless shirtless shirtless shirtless shirtless shirtless shirtless shirtless shirtless shirtless shirtless shirtless shirtless shirtless shirtless shirtless shirtless shirtless shirtless shirtless shirtless shirtless shirtless shirtless shirtless shirtless shirtless shirtless shirtless shirtless shirtless shirtless shirtless shirtless shirtless shirtless shirtless shirtless shirtless shirtless shirtless shirtless
Jay-Z, riding high from the positive reviews of his 13th and latest album “4:44,” on Monday morning announced an extensive North American tour.
All pictures copyrighted.
All images are copyrighted.
All pictures subject to copyright.
Pauly DelVecchio is joining "Hollywood Medium" with Tyler Henry.
Paris Jackson and 90210 star Trevor Donovan are ''just friends'' despite Showing PDA Gossip Entertainment / 1919 Views
A selection of photos from around the world this week:
Bella Hadid puts on some makeup in this spooky, old-fashioned Halloween-inspired film from Dior.
It’s been a roller-coaster ride of emotions for The Bachelorette this season.
The romance between one of Hollywood's most sought-after actresses and one of its most sought-after actors is taking a break.
Charlie Puth and Wiz Khalifa's "See You Again" has broken "Gangnam Style"'s record for the most-viewed video on YouTube.
One of Princess Diana's most iconic outfits is going up for auction.
All hope is lost for Teen Mom 2 star Jenelle Evans and her mom Barbara.
It's not every day you see an Oscar-winning actress carrying an Obama handbag.
Marvel’s Cloak and Dagger has been renewed for a second season by Freeform.
All images are copyrighted.
How long have Ben Affleck and Lindsay Shookus been together?
All photographs courtesy Rita Ora.
Premature births aren't exclusive to humans, and just like human babies, animal babies need some extra TLC.
Cult horror series Cult will return for a second season in the autumn, its creator has confirmed.
Chipotle’s new cheese sauce still uses only two ingredients, but the company says it will tweak its recipe.
All images subject to copyright.
After 27 years, Kermit The Frog Is Getting A New Voice.
Mary Poppins returns to the big screen in Mary Poppins Returns.
It’s official!
The Real Housewives of New York City star’s on-off boyfriend Dennis Shields was found dead in his Trump Tower apartment of a suspected overdose.
Cow Appreciation Week may exist in only the minds of those who truly love cheese as much as we do, and that's OK.
Woody Allen's concert in Germany was interrupted by two topless protesters.
It's almost back-to-school season! Read on for her back-to-school style tips, beauty must-haves and the inside scoop on her Teen Choice Awards red-carpet look!
Are you ready for a new romance? Bushnell, who works with Antin on her line of rosé wine, Dear Rosé, opened up to ET about her relationship with Antin in July, admitting that she wishes she would have taken more time after her breakup with former Bachelor Ben Higgins before jumping into a romance with
All images are copyrighted.
A selection of photos from around the world this week:
Actor and director George Clooney has died at the age of 53.
It's that time of year again.
The Hollywood couple are expecting their first child together.
DeMario Jackson, one of the stars of Bachelor in Paradise, explains why he feels ABC has been “woke as hell” with how they’ve handled the scandal.
"My outright disrespect for authority is problematic to say the least, and completely destructive to say the worst."
It's not every day you get to have five children.
Are you ready for Rachel Lindsay and Bryan Abasolo to get married?
What does it take to be a supermodel?
All images are copyrighted.
Prince William Doesn't Stand a Chance Playing Goalie Against This Future Soccer Star
A former contestant on “I in Paradise” is returning to the reality dating show.
If you’re struggling to produce enough breast milk to feed your baby, you’re not alone.
As This Is Us returns for a second season, the actress tells us what fans can expect.
The Golden Globe nominations are out, and here are the biggest snubs in the TV categories.
The women of Manchester are taking the city by storm in the new series of The Women of Manchester.
It’s not every day you get to meet a member of the Royal Family.
Kim Kardashian West and Khloé Kardashian don’t hold back while talking about their brother Rob Kardashian’s legal drama with Blac Chyna in a clip from an upcoming episode of Keeping Up With the Kardashians.
If you've ever wondered what it would be like to live in Demi Lovato's house, you've come to the right place.
It’s been almost a year since Beyonce gave birth to twins, Rumi and Sir Carter.
A selection of photos from around the world this week:
"Crazy in Love," it's been said of Beyoncé and -Z.
It’s almost time for the Pearsons to say goodbye.
All images subject to copyright.
If you're looking for the best yoga pants for women, you've come to the right place.
Caitlyn Jenner has spoken out about Rob Kardashian’s social media rampage, in which he posted naked photos of ex-fiancée Blac Chyna.
Shahs of Sunset returns to E!
How much do you know about Beyoncé's love life?
Jodie Whittaker will become the next actor - and the first female - to star as the universe-trotting Timelord in the long-running BBC science fiction series "Doctor Who."
It’s a girl!
As part of International Women's Day, BBC News takes a look back at some of the inspiring women who have gone on to lead their countries.
They're one of Hollywood's most famous couples, and now they're back on the big screen!
Chrisley Knows Best star Julie Chrisley appeared on Hollywood Medium to connect with her late brother from the great beyond.
Jennifer Garner and Ben Affleck are no longer married.
It’s not every day you get to propose to your girlfriend in front of a live audience at Disneyland, but that’s exactly what one man did.
It’s the first day of filming for A Wrinkle in Time, and the stars of the new film are in crisis.
Check out who is playing whom in the upcoming live-action remake of Aladdin.
It’s finally happening!
Aaron Carter is speaking out about his DUI arrest over the weekend - lashing out at police and even his brother Nick.
Caitlyn Jenner says she is considering running for the US Senate in 2020.
Israel's Prime Minister Benjamin Netanyahu has said he will not seek re-election in next month's election.
It’s been a rough few days for one of hip-hop’s biggest stars.
It's official: Bachelor in Paradise is coming back. Production on this season of Bachelor in Paradise will be resuming, and we plan to implement certain changes to the show’s policies and procedures to enhance and further ensure the safety and security of all participants.” But even though many fans were happy when they found
"Fantastic Four" star Jessica Alba and husband Cash Warren are expecting their third child.
The latest season of “The Bachelorette” has come to an end, and it’s time to take a look at the future.
Pop star Katy Perry is pregnant with her first child with actor Orlando Bloom.
All images are copyrighted.
How do you want to stay in touch with TV Guide?
All images subject to copyright.
Serena Williams and fiance Alexis Ohanian have officially introduced their daughter, Alexis Olympia Ohanian Jr.
If you’re a fan of The Bachelor or The Bachelorette, you may have noticed that one of the stars is no longer on the show.
One of Kylie Jenner's closest friends is Jordyn Woods.
One of the alleged victims of R. Kelly’s sex cult is speaking out, saying that the disturbing claims are totally untrue.
Pop singer Aaron Carter has been arrested on suspicion of driving under the influence, possession of marijuana, and possession of drug-related objects.
Justin Bieber surprised fans at a children’s hospital in California on Monday.
It's been a long time coming.
It's been 25 years since JonBenét Ramsey was found dead in the basement of the family home in Boulder, Colorado.
If you're a fan of reality TV, you'll know that The Bachelor and The Bachelorette are back on our screens this summer.
The Hills star Heidi Montag is pregnant with her first child with husband Spencer Pratt.
I’m writing this on the shore of a lake in the middle of winter.
Ryan Reynolds has taken to social media to defend his decision to let his children watch his latest film.
It's all about the family on The Bachelorette.
Happy birthday, Kristen Bell!
Jane Krakowski and Ellie Kemper make a hilarious team on "Unbreakable Kimmy Schmidt," and now the actresses have become the first female comedic duo to star in new commercials for Sonic.
Chrisley Knows Best star Julie Chrisley appeared on Hollywood Medium with Tyler Henry and revealed that she had lost a child.
All photographs  BBC
Only high quality pics and photos with Cara Delevingne.
In our series of letters from celebrities, Kate Winslet shares her beauty secrets.
Ansel Elgort, star of The Fault In Our Stars, tells us what it's like to be a high school sweetheart, finding happiness, and lying to your girlfriend.
All images are copyrighted.
Check out Ramona Singer's Pinterest-worthy Hamptons retreat.
Is Dean the next Bachelor?
Check out Demi Lovato's "Sorry Not Sorry" music video, which includes cameos from Paris Hilton, Wiz Khalifa, and Jamie Foxx.
It’s a boy!
Insecure star Issa Rae told Stephen Colbert she met Rihanna at the Golden Globes.
Country music star Keith Urban and Latin-urban artist Nicky Jam are the latest artists to join YouTube’s new singing competition series.
It’s one of the most notorious celebrity break-ins in recent memory.
Kevin Hart and wife Eniko Parrish are expecting their first child together.
Lena Dunham is joining the FX horror anthology, co-creator Ryan Murphy announced in a tweet on Wednesday evening.
It's official.
Jared Padalecki celebrated his 35th birthday on Wednesday’s Comic-Con-themed episode of Conan, alongside his co-star Jensen Ackles, who surprised him with a keg stand!
The Duke and Duchess of Cambridge learn how to make pretzels during a visit to a market in Heidelberg, Germany.
Game of Thrones stars Kit Harington, Nikolaj Coster-Waldau, Emilia Clarke and Peter Dinklage have been at Comic-Con in San Diego, USA, to promote the fourth season of the fantasy drama.
“Black-ish” and “Splitting Up Together” both came down from last week’s gains but were still the top shows in the key demo on Tuesday night.
Linkin Park frontman Chester Bennington has died, Brian Elias of the Los Angeles County coroner’s office confirmed to The Hollywood Reporter.
Jennifer Lopez is one of the world's most iconic entertainers.
If you’ve ever wanted to see Andy and Lana Wachowski’s “The Matrix,” August will be your chance.
Linkin Park singer Chester Bennington was found with a prescription bottle of Ambien and a small amount of beer in his bedroom.
Linkin Park singer Chester Bennington has died at the age of 41.
Raven-Symone says her character on Disney Channel’s new reboot of That’s So Raven is still as crazy as ever, but now she’s teaching her children to be “just as crazy as her.”
A selection of photos from around the world this week:
Brie Bella says she would love to have another child with Daniel Bryan.
“I don’t have a relationship with him.”
Comic-Con, the world’s largest pop culture convention, is taking place this week.
Julianne Hough and Brooks Laich have been showing off their dance moves on Instagram.
Taylor Swift, Kendall Jenner and More Stars Deal With the Scary Side of Fame
All images subject to copyright.
One of the stars of season three of Fixer Upper spoke exclusively to POPSUGAR about what it's really like to be on the show.
It's not every day you see a doctor with a scar on his face.
Gigi Hadid's best sneaker-based outfits, as well as The Zoe Report's roundup of the most New Year's Eve-friendly trainers, all of which pay subtle homage to the styles the model wears on repeat.
A selection of photos from around the world this week:
Shahs of Sunset star Mercedes "MJ" Javid married fiancé Tommy Feight at the Jeremy hotel in West Hollywood, California, on Saturday.
As her brother-in-law is released from prison, Nicole Simpson’s sister tells PEOPLE she has no choice but to accept it, for her own peace of mind.
Rob Kardashian's ex-fiancée Blac Chyna will get her day in court.
All pictures courtesy of Victoria Beckham.
Selena Gomez Turns 25: See Her Cutest Candid Looks Over the Years Gossip Entertainment / Gossip 1778 Views Happy birthday, Selena Gomez!
The funeral for True Blood actor Nelsan Ellis has taken place.
All images subject to copyright.
With the release of “The Batman” this weekend, we’re once again summoned to measure the Batmanliness of a new Bat Guy against his predecessors as the Caped Crusader character.
Chris Harrison will return to host the 2018 Miss America competition, the Miss America Organization, Dick Clark Productions and ABC announced Monday.
Happy birthday, Selena Gomez!
Ice-T has taken to Twitter to share a photo of himself with actress Jennifer Lawrence, who has been braiding her hair.
One of Princess Diana's most iconic outfits is going up for auction.
Becky G broke down in tears while talking about her guardian angel, Tinker Bell.
Two-time Olympic high jumper Jamie Nieto walked down the aisle on his wedding day after being paralysed from the neck down.
A video of Britney Spears falling for a reality TV star in 2008 has been released online.
Pop star Justin Bieber has called off the remainder of his Purpose world tour.
Who are the Kaviani sisters?
All images subject to copyright.
Comic-Con, the world’s largest celebration of pop culture, takes place this week in San Diego, California.
The best of what's going on in the world of entertainment.
A daily guide to the best of the week's television, film and entertainment news.
It's that time of year again when we're all trying to make sense of the world around us.
The growing romance between two reality TV stars has been spotted out in public again.
A selection of photos from around the world this week:
A selection of photos from around the world this week:
Power actress, La La Anthony, explains how she keeps her body in tip-top shape.
'RHOA' Star Kandi Burruss Reveals What Annoys Her the Most About Each of Her Castmates
Rob Lowe and his sons Matthew and John stopped by The Tonight Show on Monday to play the “Best Son Challenge,” a parent-son version of “The Newlywed Game.”
She’s got a new car!
After years of trolling President Donald Trump, model and social media powerhouse Chrissy Teigen says Mr.
"Disenchantment" is about a princess (voiced by Abbi Jacobson), a demon (Eric Andre), a dwarf (Nat Faxon) and their adventures in a realm called "Dreamland."
Nicolas Cage in Kazakhstan is the picture you didn’t know you wanted but you need.
All images are copyrighted.
James Cameron and National Geographic are teaming up for a special on the 20th anniversary of the release of Titanic.
Ilana Glazer and Abbi Jacobson have signed a first-look deal with Comedy Central parent company Viacom, with three projects already in development for their soon-to-be former network.
Lea Michele has joined Ashley Tisdale on stage to perform a cover of Robyn's "Dancing on My Own".
If you're a fan of Riverdale, you'll be happy to hear that the show's creator has confirmed that there's going to be a split between Betty and Jughead this season.
Find out what's on sale at Kohl's this weekend.
Find out more at:
It’s almost time for Teen Wolf to come to an end.
Tyson Kidd Net Worth 2018: What is this wrestler worth?
Have you ever wanted to play charades with your husband?
He’s the king of late night.
Michael Phelps and a great white shark did not actually race, as the Discovery Channel suggested.
He’s the newest member of the Duggar family!
The Real Housewives of New York City are home safe after a tumultuous trip to Colombia, where they found themselves on a “boat ride from hell” that sources tell PEOPLE left them “crying out for their lives” when the ship’s anchor caught mid-trip and the vessel started taking on water.
The Duke and Duchess of Cambridge are expecting their third child, a girl named Charlotte, in April.
"I can’t tell if it’s menopause or if it’s just been the year I’ve had."
If you're like us, you're always on the hunt for the perfect summer outfit.
We’re sitting in the living room of Angelina Jolie’s Los Angeles home, surrounded by the six children she shares with ex-husband Brad Pitt.
“The Mindy Project” star Ike Barinholtz is wearing a neck brace while filming the final season of the show.
Angelina Jolie adopted Maddox Jolie-Pitt from an orphanage in Battambang, Cambodia.
The Grey’s Anatomy spinoff will feature an entirely new cast, as none of the regulars from Grey’s have been identified as candidates to move over.
She’s one of Hollywood’s most famous actresses, but did you know she’s also one of its most infamous?
Over the past few months, a number of high-profile celebrities have spoken candidly about their personal and professional lives.
Home Alone star Macaulay Culkin has been spotted out and about sporting a new look that includes dark rimmed glasses, a shorter hair style and a healthier physique.
Bobbi Kristina Brown died in 2015 at the age of 22 after spending nearly six months in a coma.
The symptoms of Bell's palsy include:
It’s that time of year again.
If you're like us, you're always on the hunt for the best bang for your buck.
In the wake of Donald Trump’s decision to ban transgender people from serving in the US military, one comedian has responded with an apology on behalf of all transgender people.
Larry David‘s Curb Your Enthusiasm has been renewed for a 10th season on HBO.
Jessica Biel is back!
Jimmy Fallon, James Corden and Patti Harrison weigh in on President Donald Trump’s plan to ban transgender people from serving in the military.
If you’ve ever been to a house party, you’ll know what I’m talking about. Much like the best house party you ever attended year, last night’s Real Housewives Of New York came replete with drunken makeout sessions, naked crying in the pool, and knifings.
"Learn to let go of those bad feelings and move forward with an open heart."
It was an announcement that rocked the entertainment world when Angelina Jolie Pitt filed for divorce from husband of two years Brad Pitt in 2016.
It's hard to put into words the sheer terror of American Horror Story's art.
James Rodriguez and his wife Daniela Ospina have announced a split after six years of marriage.
James Corden and Jensen Karp, executive producers on TBS’s “Drop the Mic,” shared their dream rap battle: Judi Dench vs.
If you're a fan of short hair, you're in for a treat.
Justin Bieber ran over a photographer in Los Angeles on Wednesday, but the snapper insists that ‘accidents happen’.
It’s that time of year again when Hollywood’s A-listers hit the stores to stock up on shampoo and conditioner.
Marc Anthony’s mother, Guillermina Quiones de Muiz, has passed away.
All images are copyrighted.
WWE Superstar Carmella talks about joining the cast of “Total Divas,” the women’s revolution in the WWE and what it means to be a role model for female fans.
All images are copyrighted.
The couple met at a party and immediately hit it off, even dancing to Madonna’s “Lucky Star.”
A big swirling bucket of the latest rumors, celebrity news and Hollywood gossip.
Madison Beer has denied rumours that she's in a relationship with Brooklyn Beckham.
George Clooney showed off pics of his twins with wife Amal while attending a Casamigos House of Friends Dinner at TAO in L.A.
All pictures are copyrighted.
The comedian brought her Laugh Your Head Off World Tour to Hollywood Thursday night, serving up almost three hours of comedy in a high-octane set.
It's been 18 years since the release of The Princess Diaries.
When she was pregnant with her first child, Soleil Moon Frye was told she would never be able to walk again.
It all started with a trip to the doctor.
The 19-year-old model and actress took to Instagram on Friday to share some photos from her visit to a spiritual sanctuary. The 19-year-old model and actress took to Instagram on Friday to share some photos from her visit to a spiritual sanctuary.
Justin Bieber has been spotted out in Los Angeles wearing the very Purpose Tour merch that fans were hoping to get at his upcoming shows.
A selection of photos from around the world this week:
It’s almost time for the final season of Teen Wolf to come to an end!
The Real Housewives of Atlanta star Kim Zolciak has been called out by one of her haters on social media.
Pop star Britney Spears and her boyfriend Sam Asghari posted a video on Wednesday night which gave fans a hilarious glimpse at what the singer is really like when she’s hungry.
The star of Bravo's Shahs of Sunset has shed 40 pounds thanks to a strict diet and fitness regimen that includes eating lots and lots of carrots. Shahs of Sunset agent Reza Farahan has shed 40 pounds since December thanks to a strict diet and fitness regimen that includes eating lots and lots of carrots,
Kerry Washington has shared a photo of her newborn twins with the caption, "Thank you for allowing us to love you and celebrate you this weekend."
If you think you know what a perfect life is, think again.
Taylor Swift says she had the'most Wonderful Time' as She Up Final Eras Tour Show in Sydney.
If it ain’t broke, do not fix it!
Sam Shepard, the Pulitzer Prize-winning playwright, Oscar-nominated actor and celebrated author whose plays chronicled the explosive fault lines of family and masculinity in the American West, has died.
Justin Bieber's decision to cancel the remainder of his Purpose World Tour has been met with a lot of criticism, but one of his closest friends is standing up for him.
One of the new contestants on Colton Underwood's season of The Bachelor has issued an apology over old tweets.
It’s been a roller-coaster ride of a season.
It’s not every day you get to meet a country music star but that’s exactly what happened to Brett Eldredge on this week’s Hollywood Medium.
Bachelor in Paradise star Vinny Ventiera may have found love with Ashley Hebert on Million Dollar Matchmaker.
George Clooney's charitable foundation is planning to open seven public schools for Syrian refugee children.
Broadway veterans Caissie Levy and Patti Murin star in the pre-Broadway engagement of Disney’s Frozen.
What happens if your ex-husband is the father of your new baby?
It's no secret that Vicki Gunvalson and Kelly Dodd have had their ups and downs during this season of The Real Housewives of Orange County.
For the first time in The Bachelor franchise’s history, two of the show’s contestants will be absent from a special episode.
He's one of the biggest names in music, but R. Kelly's "After Party" tour is going to be a little shorter -- a bunch of dates have been terminated.
It's that time of year again.
Rob Lowe and his sons join the legions of ghost hunters that populate cable with “The Lowe Files,” a goofy bit of Scooby-Doo-like hijinks for the A&E network.
She's one of Hollywood's most famous blondes.
If you've ever watched Keeping Up with the Kardashians, you'll know that they're all about clothes.
Carrie Ann Inaba asks her mother to be her matron of honor on Live With Kelly & Ryan!
All images are copyrighted.
A selection of photos from around the world this week:
He’s one of Saturday Night Live’s longest-serving cast members.
Ben Affleck and his new girlfriend, Saturday Night Live producer Lindsay Shookus, were spotted out on vacation in Maine over the weekend.
Brooke Burns explains the tragic story of her grandparents' deaths to Tyler Henry on Hollywood Medium.
It's been a busy few months for the Biermann family.
From accidentally dropping an f-bomb on Saturday Night Live to breaking up with Chris Evans, here are 11 times Jenny Slate has proved she’s all of us.
Joanna Krupa And Brandi Glanville Settle Feminine Odor Lawsuit Ahhh yes, the sweet smell of—-success!
As Los Angeles prepares to welcome back the Olympics in 2028, the Curbed team looks at how past games have changed the city and how city leaders can use those lessons to put forth the best games for everyone.
The Hollywood Reporter has obtained an explosive new lawsuit that details an extensive medical examination of the music star.
Serena Williams and fiance Alexis Ohanian have officially introduced their daughter, Alexis Olympia Ohanian Jr.
EltaMD is one of the world's leading manufacturers of high-performance sunscreen.
Miley Cyrus' mum Tish has filed for divorce from country singer Billy Ray Cyrus citing irreconcilable differences.
Sofia Vergara posed nude at the age of 45 for the Naked Issue of Women’s Health Magazine and stated that she “can’t be perfect” at her age, and she doesn’t want to be.
This Is Us season two poster is teasing some happy and sad moments.
She’s a pop star, she’s an activist, and she’s been diagnosed with bipolar disorder.
It's one of the most common skin problems in women, and now there's a new class of anti-cellulite creams on the market.
It's no secret that Selena and The Weeknd are in love.
lady-first.me l trang trc tip bng  min ph, lady-first.me cung cp link xem bng  trc tuyn xi lc TV t
Being an aesthetic and founder of her own skin-care line has taught Roulele Vargas how to keep her skin looking its best.
How to clean kitchen cabinets so they look good as-new
"I’d like to have eight running around,” the 46-year-old actor says of possibly making his 4-year-old daughter Ava a big sister, "But at this point... that’s not in my future."
It's been a year and a half in the making.
Jonas Never, a former college baseball player-turned-artist, spent two days with spray cans and house paint, creating his tribute to Linkin Park singer Chester Bennington that now looms just past the Coldwater Canyon exit, adorning the side of Rock’n Pies Pizza Co.
Chad Johnson Says He Can't Deal With Karina Smirnoff's "F--king Rejection" Anymore: She's "Trying to Piss Me Off!"
The cast of one of America's most popular sitcoms, Everwood, have reunited to celebrate the show's 10th anniversary.
Karina Smirnoff and Chad Johnson are not the best of friends but they can’t stand each other on Famously Single.
Jessie James Decker says she and Eric Decker will probably not do another season of their reality show, Eric & Jessie.
The first wave of nominees for the 2018 Teen Choice Awards was announced today (June 13), with the biggest stars of music, movies, television and sports from the past year receiving nods.
Pop group Maroon 5 are celebrating 10 years in the music business.
There's a big difference between what people think is sexy and what they actually find sexy.
Comedian Dave Chappelle believes President Donald Trump will create better voters.
All images are copyrighted.
Law & Order creator Dick Wolf is taking his long-running drama to the small screen with Law & Order True Crime: The Menendez Murders.
Like mother, like daughter!
Imitation is the sincerest form of flattery.
As the Duke and Duchess of Sussex’s tour of Australia and New Zealand comes to an end, we caught up with the designer who made one of Meghan’s go-to pieces.
Larsa Pippen is the star of the TV reality show The Real Housewives of Miami.
It's that time of year again!
Luann de Lesseps and Tom D'Agostino have filed for divorce after just seven months of marriage.
A year after morning news shows at CBS and NBC abruptly lost male anchors Charlie Rose and Matt Lauer in sexual misconduct scandals, the “Today” show has done appreciably better weathering the storm.
From Kim Zolciak's "black baby" to Marlo Hampton's bizarre mimicking match, here are some of the most memorable Real Housewives vacations of all time.
Diana, Princess of Wales, at the Braemar Highland Games on September 1982 in Scotland.
Lollapalooza was forced to close early on the first day of the music festival due to weather, bringing the festival's first day a close early.
Justin Bieber enjoyed a night out on Thursday, August 3, at the launch party for celebrity stylist Karla Welch’s Bieber-inspired collection with Hanes.
It’s a boy!
The talk show host spoke to reporters at the Television Critics Association’s summer press tour on Thursday to promote his new daytime show “Steve.”
Michelle Obama wished her husband a happy birthday with a thoughtful photo and message to Obama on Instagram.
Grey’s Anatomy has enlisted Timeless star Abigail Spencer to replace Bridget Regan and take on the role of Owen’s presumed-dead sister, Megan Hunt.
The Menendez murders have moved to the front-line of Edie Falco’s character gallery as the acclaimed actress stars in NBC’s “Law & Order True Crime: The Menendez Murders.”
It's all over!
If you’re looking for a way to curl your hair without heat this summer, you’ve come to the right place. 3 Ways to Curl Your Hair Without Heat If you already have some wave to your hair, you might be able to simply scrunch in some product and allow hair to air dry naturally.
Caitlyn Jenner proudly displayed her support for President Donald Trump on Thursday, August 3, just days after she slammed his “half-baked” transgender military ban.
It's that time of year again... prom!
Robert Pattinson has revealed that he refused to perform a sex act on a dog on the set of Good Time.
LuAnn de Lesseps is best known for her role as a main cast member on the Bravo reality series "The Real Housewives of New York City".
On Monday's episode of Bachelor in Paradise, Becca Kufrin, the runner-up on The Bachelor last season, explains how she kept her makeup fresh on the show.
All pictures are copyrighted.
A selection of photos from around the world this week:
Aaron Carter, right, and Madison Parker arrive at Wango Tango at StubHub Center on Saturday, May 13, 2017, in Carson, Calif.
It was a dream wedding for one of TLC’s most famous families.
It’s been a year and a half in the making.
We caught up with Sonja Morgan at the opening of the new TMPL gym location in New York City.
A source close to the couple tells Us Weekly that Carter is “relieved” he got out of the relationship.
Reality TV star Luann De Lesseps is going to rehab after her arrest last week, the “Real Housewives of New York City” star said on Twitter Friday.
Carys Zeta Douglas On Growing Up In The Spotlight
A selection of photos from around the world this week:
After eight years of marriage, Chris Pratt and Anna Faris are separating.
As Chris Pratt and Anna Faris announce their engagement, we take a look back at some of the films they've starred in together.
The second music video from Guardians of the Galaxy Vol. 2 has been released, and it's called "Motor."
All pictures subject to copyright.
Check out The Weeknd's new sneakers below!
A selection of photos from around the world this week:
They're one of Hollywood's most famous couples, but now Chris Pratt and Anna Faris have settled their divorce.
Sandra Bullock and Bryan Randall are not married.
All images are copyrighted.
One of the stars of The Biggest Loser is warning others about a scam.
All images are copyrighted.
Amal and George Clooney took a night off their parenting duties on Tuesday, to instead enjoy dinner in Lake Como with Amal's mother Baria.
Grey's Anatomy's Jo and Alex will finally get married in the season 14 finale.
The Real Housewives of Orange County's Kelly Dodd explains why she called Shannon Beador a "prostitute" during Meghan King Edmonds' last party.
It's official: you're going to need more attention when you're pregnant.
It's been almost ten years since Chris Brown pleaded guilty for assaulting then-girlfriend Rihanna, and some fans are not willing to forget the shocking incident - as indicated by their angry reaction to Chris commenting on the singer's recent Instagram posts.
After weeks of narrowing down her suitors from 31 men, the 32-year-old trial attorney from Dallas chose the 37-year-old Colombian chiropractor living in Miami. After weeks of narrowing down her suitors from 31 men, the 32-year-old trial attorney from Dallas chose the 37-year-old Colombian chiropractor living in
Elon Musk says he’s looking for a “serious companion or soulmate” after splitting from Amber Heard.
Good news: David Letterman is about to get a hell of a lot richer, which is to say: David Letterman is getting a new TV show.
Darren Aronofsky's latest film, Mother!, tells the story of a young woman who moves to New York City to start a new life.
"I'm sitting shiva and I would appreciate a fruit basket."
All images are copyrighted.
If you’re a fan of The Bachelor or The Bachelorette, you may have noticed that one of the stars is no longer on the show.
This item is in stock and ready to ship.
Johnny Bananas, Emily Schromm, Wes Bergmann, Terrell Owens, Justina Valentine, Tori Deal, and CT Tamburello have donated items to a charity auction in memory of former contestant Diem Moore.
For the first time since human gummy bear Miley Cyrus and youngest Hemsworth, Liam, reunited earlier this year, The Voice coach has confirmed that they are, in fact, engaged again.
Netflix has confirmed that 13 Reasons Why will return for a second season.
The Walt Disney Company is moving into the video streaming business.
Back in the day, The Tonight Show was broadcast from New York's Rockefeller Center.
Pop star Taylor Swift has won a court case against a former radio DJ who she says groped her at a concert in 2013.
“I think the world is going to get something really special from her.
Flipping Out star Jeff Lewis says his housekeeper Zoila Chavez has retired after 18 years working for him.
Brandi Glanville calls her grandma "gangster bitch grandma."
It’s official!
It's that time of year again - the summer reading club.
It’s been a long time coming.
Karina Smirnoff and Chad Johnson try to salvage their relationship in the season finale of "Famously Single," and based on this exclusive video clip obtained by TooFab, things might get weird.
Montana Governor Steve Moore has called for a ban on yoga pants in the state.
It’s not every day you can buy a house for $8.5 million.
Cult horror series Cult will return for a second season in the autumn, its creator has confirmed.
Check out Zendaya's sexy music video for Bruno Mars's On The Floor below.
Chris Pratt accepted the Choice Sci-Fi Movie Actor surfboard at the 2017 Teen Choice Awards on Sunday night, in his first appearance since he and Anna Faris announced their separation last week.
It’s been a long time coming.
All images are copyrighted.
This Is Us continued its exploration of the Pearson family in this week’s episode, “Highs and Lows.”
Model Gigi Hadid has revealed she thought she was going to die when she joined a gym.
It's a big day for the Kardashians!
Luann D’Agostino says she would kill her husband if she found out he was having an affair.
Pink will receive the Michael Jackson Video Vanguard Award at this year’s MTV Video Music Awards.
Bachelor in Paradise alums Evan Bass and Carly Waddell are set to tie the knot on ABC Tuesday when the fourth season returns for the second half of its two-night premiere.
Jordan Rodgers and JoJo Fletcher are enjoying the peace and quiet of life after The Bachelorette.
Tiger Woods had prescription drugs in his system when he was arrested for driving under the influence, according to a toxicology report.
She’s one of the most famous people in the world, but do you know how to contour?
Vogue has teamed up with Google to bring you a behind-the-scenes look at Kendall Jenner’s closet.
If you're looking for the perfect short hairstyle, then you've come to the right place.
It’s the latest twist in one of Hollywood’s most high-profile divorces.
Victoria Beckham's son, Brooklyn, has revealed that his mother is 'upset' about him moving out.
Flip or Flop co-stars Tarek and Christina El Moussa are producing a new reality show with their business partner Bryan and Maira Segal.
If you’re looking for the best Australian beauty products, then you’ve come to the right place.
It's not every day you see a supermodel's daughter and an actor's son in the same photo shoot, but that's exactly what happened this week. Los Angeles-based denim brand Hudson used two icon descendants, Kaia Gerber, the daughter of supermodel Cindy Crawford, and Gabriel-Kane
There’s a big change coming to Dance Moms.
All photographs courtesy Danielle Sykes.
Chris Brown has opened up about his assault on Rihanna that landed him in court in 2009.
It's one of the most talked about TV romances of the year.
Lady Gaga is facing a new legal challenge.
A selection of photos from around the world this week:
The Kardashians are celebrating 10 years on Keeping Up With the Kardashians with a special 10th anniversary episode.
Pop stars Kelly Clarkson and Jennifer Hudson are returning to The Voice for its 15th season.
It's a bet you don't want to lose.
The top 10 highest-paid actors on the Forbes list made a combined total of $488.5 million compared to the $172.5m that the 10 highest-paid actresses made, shining another light on the disparity between men and women in Hollywood.
Mission: Impossible 6 has been put on hold after Tom Cruise broke his ankle during a stunt.
A big swirling bucket of the latest rumors, celebrity news and Hollywood gossip.
What parents need to know about the Asthma Inhaler that went off the market.
Fast-food chain Taco Bell has unveiled a slew of new menu items over the past few months.
Crazy Ex-Girlfriend star Rachel Bloom has revealed that she earns less than $100,000 per episode.
Ellen DeGeneres and Portia de Rossi are celebrating their ninth wedding anniversary.
A selection of photos from around the world this week:
Taylor Swift is making good on her promise to donate to a sexual assault charity.
It’s a boy!
It’s that time of year again when you’re trying to remember what it was like to live in the summer of 2017.
Family Theater has a new website.
Luann de Lesseps will sit down with Andy Cohen to discuss her split from Tom D'Agostino at her home in Sag Harbor on Wednesday, September 6 at 11/10c.
Shop our selection of Halloween indoor decorations, including:
Peter Kraus, the runner-up on The Bachelorette, may not be the next Bachelor.
It's all about the exes.
You're the Worst ended season three with Jimmy (Chris Geere) doing pretty much the worst thing possible, leaving Gretchen (Aya Cash) alone on a hilltop after proposing to her.
Madonna has defended her use of the term "Gypsy" on her new TV show, insisting it's "not offensive at all".
All photographs by Shea Lignitz Shea.
It's been a year and a half since Beyonce released her highly anticipated visual album, Lemonade, and now she's spilling the beans on how the record was made.
She's the face of one of the biggest beauty brands in the world.
Pop star Miley Cyrus has paid $5.8 million for a 6,869-square-foot home in Williamson County.
It’s a boy or a girl?
A selection of photos from around the world this week:
It’s time for the second round of Q103’s Rock Girl competition.
Are you happy that Cody and Jessica won the $1 million prize and will now start a family?
Courtney Barnett is one of the few public figures who doesn’t claim to have all the answers.
It’s time to say goodbye to Scott and Stiles!
Matt Baier says the downfall of his relationship with Amber Portwood was his fault.
Ray Romano set up his son for a date on The Late Late Show with Julia Louis-Dreyfus and James Corden.
If you’ve ever wondered how to use a sheet mask, here’s your chance...
Greenstart Capital offers startup business loans with no revenue requirements.
It’s been a long time coming.
It's official... Arie Luyendyk Jr. is the next Bachelor!
Kylie Jenner finally reveals why she broke up with Tyga as she opens up about their relationship. Kylie Jenner finally reveals why she broke up with Tyga as she opens up about their relationship The reality star and rapper split back in April after dating on and off for a number of years Kylie Jenner finally reveals why she broke up
Valentine’s Day is just around the corner.
It's one of the most talked-about couples in Hollywood.
The MTV Video Music Awards (VMAs) are one of the biggest nights in the music industry.
Grey's Anatomy: The Complete Thirteenth Season is now available on DVD.
Former The Hills stars Heidi Montag and Spencer Pratt are expecting their first child.
Jay-Z appears to name-drop Kanye West on one of his tracks, "Kill Jay Z."
"Your prayers and well wishes have truly helped me and continue to lift my spirits."
It’s not every day you see a two-year-old on a TV show.
New parents Carly Waddell and Evan Bass are expecting their first child together.
Jerry Lewis, the brash slapstick comic who became a pop culture sensation in his partnership with Dean Martin and then transformed himself into an auteur filmmaker of such comedic classics as “The Nutty Professor” and “The Bellboy,” has died at the age of 91.
Pop star Britney Spears responds to lip-syncing claims with a stripped-down performance of Bonnie Raitt’s "Something to Talk About."
Bachelor in Paradise stars Jade Roper and Tanner Tolbert revealed the name of their newborn baby girl with a sweet Instagram photo on Sunday, August 20.
It’s that time of year again.
Robin Thicke is enjoying a vacation in Hawaii with girlfriend April Love Geary and son Julian, and on Saturday, August 19, he posted a cute shot of them together.
Ben Affleck and Lindsay Shookus spotted out and about in New York on Sunday as their summer romance post-Jennifer Gardner divorce continues to bloom.
Jay-Z paid tribute to Linkin Park singer Chester Bennington during a concert in England.
All images are copyrighted.
This American Horror Story: Cult Theory Suggests Winter Is the Real Big Bad.
The 2015 MTV Video Music Awards will take place on Sunday, August 16 at the Barclays Center in Brooklyn, New York.
It’s that time of year again.
It’s one of the most anticipated birthdays of the year!
Katy Perry and Orlando Bloom are back together in Prague.
A selection of photos from around the world this week:
President Donald Trump stared directly at the sun during Monday’s solar eclipse at the White House.
Are you ready for a new type of workout?
The Notorious B.I.G.'s psychic reading with Lil' Kim sheds some light on the rapper's final days.
Khloe Kardashian is "still working on things" with Tristan Thompson.
It’s been a long time coming.
Bachelor in Paradise airs on ABC every Monday and Tuesday night at 8/7c.
She's one of the world's most famous athletes.
It's that time of year again when The Real Housewives of New Jersey return to our TV screens.
From Kevin Spacey to James Spader, the stars of TV’s most popular shows are cashing in on the success of their shows.
It wasn’t meant to be.
Meet Brandon!
It’s hard to know what to make of Donald Trump’s presidency right now.
Choosing the best bangs for your face shape is no easy task.
Alicia Is Trying to Become an Actual Bimbo in Botched Peek: "I Want to Look Like a F–k Doll" Barbie called and she wants her body back!
Jon and Kate Gosselin have been involved in a custody dispute over one of their 13-year-old daughters.
The Only Way Is Essex star Brittany Cartwright has spoken out about her split from husband and co-star Jax Taylor.
Brad Pitt and Angelina Jolie Pitt have split after 12 years as a couple and two years of marriage.
Carole Radziwill is known for appearing on Bravo's hit reality show, "The Real Housewives of New York."
The jean jacket is one of the most versatile pieces in your closet.
The Hills star Jason Wahler and his wife, Ashley Slack, have welcomed their first child, a baby girl named Delilah Ray, the couple confirmed to Entertainment Tonight.
Check it out!
The Night King is dead.
How to pick the right shades for your skin tone.
As Marvel prepares to release Guardians of the Galaxy 3, we take a look back at the characters who have appeared in the franchise so far.
Ariana Grande has pulled out of a concert in Vietnam.
Prince Harry has condemned paparazzi photographers who took pictures of Princess Diana as she lay dying in the wreckage of her crashed limousine.
One of my Twitter followers sent me a tweet claiming to have seen a screenshot of the Assassin's Creed video game.
If you're a fan of The Bachelorette, chances are good you're used to seeing Rachel Lindsay in sparkly gowns with long, perfectly styled hair and of course those gorgeous flirty false eyelashes. If you're a fan of The Bachelorette, chances are good you're used to seeing Rachel Lindsay in sparkly
With a sleek desk, eye-catching wallpaper, DIY shelves, and a striking chandelier, a space of miscellaneous fashion finds revamps into a modern office nook.
All images are copyrighted.
"I find myself in the unique position of eating for a living while still being expected to look a certain way... let's call it'red carpet ready.'"
Jax Taylor and Brittany Cartwright are getting their own spin-off, which will follow the lovebirds to Cartwright's family farm in Kentucky.
The US Supreme Court has ruled in favour of abortion rights.
As Katy Perry prepares to host the MTV VMAs for the first time since 2008, we take a look back at some of her most memorable VMAs.
All images are copyrighted.
It’s been a long time coming.
It’s all about the rubber duckies.
Kim Kardashian and Kanye West are reportedly trying to have a third child.
Olympians Lindsay Arnold, Mirai Nagasu, and Tonya Harding have joined the cast of “Dancing With the Stars.”
A woman who was convicted of killing a man she said raped her is telling her story in a new Netflix documentary.
Basketball legend Michael Jordan has put his Los Angeles home up for sale for just under $3m.
If you’ve ever wondered what it’s like to be Lady Gaga, you’ve come to the right place.
We’ve seen the first three episodes of the new Will & Grace.
If you’ve watched any of the six seasons of “Game of Thrones,” you’ll know that the show is moving faster than ever.
Harley Quinn is getting her own film.
All images are copyrighted.
Patty Jenkins and Lynda Carter share the spotlight at Glamour Women of the Year Awards.
Look what you made Taylor Swift do in the video for “Look What You Made Me Do.”
All images are copyrighted.
Bella Hadid's double-denim look is the perfect example of why you should try something new every now and then.
Jane could only stay away from Scarlet for so long.
Taylor Swift has revealed the back covers of Reputation magazines that will be available when you buy the album at Target.
Miley Cyrus appears nearly nude on the cover of David LaChappelle's new coffee table book, Lost + Found.
It's been a busy week for Taylor Swift.
All images are copyrighted.
Taylor Swift’s new single, “Look What You Made Me Do,” contains a full sample of Right Said Fred’s hit, “I’m Too Sexy.”
Nick Viall and Vanessa Grimaldi break up six months after getting engaged on The Bachelor.
Coldplay has cancelled their concert in Houston, Texas, which was postponed due to Hurricane Harvey.
Choosing the best foundation for sensitive skin can be tricky.
How do you create the slickest ponytail in the world?
After months of speculation, Taylor Swift has finally released her long-awaited new music video.
Garth Brooks Says He'll 'Send a Plane' to Travis Kelce So He Can Sing 'Friends in Low Places' at His Bar Opening
What do you do if you're mocked for your height?
A look back at the key stories, newspaper headlines and quotes from the past week.
The 25-year-old singer will sing the national anthem at the upcoming superfight between boxer Floyd Mayweather and UFC champ Conor McGregor. The 25-year-old singer will sing the national anthem at the upcoming superfight between boxer Floyd Mayweather and UFC champ Conor McGregor on Aug.
It's a girl!
She’s one of the most famous women in the world, but did you know she also has a private medical procedure?
All images are copyrighted.
There was definitely at least one person who hated Sunday's MTV VMAs: Maroon 5 frontman Adam Levine.
Camila Cabello has opened up about why she left Fifth Harmony.
Game of Thrones stars Kit Harington and Emilia Clarke discuss how the incestuous pairing between Jon Snow and Daenerys Targaryen will affect their relationship.
Taylor Swift took to Instagram to poke fun at people who think she's materialistic.
A selection of photos from around the world this week:
Kim Kardashian and North West have appeared on a magazine cover together for the first time.
What do you do at the age of four? Well, at the same age, North West has already starred on the cover of Interview magazine alongside her mother Kim Kardashian West in an America's First Family/Kennedy-themed photoshoot, and looks utterly adorable.
A selection of photos from around the world this week:
“I didn’t see all these red flags.”
Miley Cyrus, Billy Ray Cyrus, Tish Cyrus, Trace Cyrus, Braison Cyrus and Noah Cyrus hit the road with James Corden for "Carpool Karaoke: The Series."
If you’re a fan of celebrities, you might be interested in how they manage their money.
A selection of photos from around the world this week:
John Cena and Nikki Bella are back on Total Bellas.
All images subject to copyright.
"The Bachelorette" star Emily Maynard and husband Tyler Johnson are expecting their second child.
Harry Styles, Leslie Odom, Jr, Miguel and Jane Zhang will be performing at this year’s Victoria’s Secret Fashion Show in Shanghai.
Kim Kardashian West, Kris Jenner and Khloe Kardashian are donating half a million dollars to help the victims of Hurricane Harvey.
Michael Phelps and Nicole Johnson have welcomed their second child, a baby boy named Beckett, on Monday, February 12.
The Voice returns with the strongest vocalists from across the country invited to compete in the blockbuster vocal competition show’s fifth season.
One of the stars of The Bachelor has revealed she’s taking a break from social media following her split from Nick Viall.
Michael Buble and Luisana Lopilato's son Noah celebrated his fourth birthday with a Spider-Man themed party, where the whole family got their faces painted to fit the theme.
In a little more than a week since its release, Taylor Swift's new single, "Look What You Made Me Do," has ridden a wave of attention into record-breaking metrics.
All images are copyrighted.
Reid Scott and his wife, Elspeth Keller, welcomed their second son named Damon Leif Scott on Thursday, the actor's rep exclusively confirms to ET.
A selection of photos from around the world this week:
Thousands of evacuees have streamed in by the busload to Houston's George R. Brown Convention Center, the largest shelter serving victims of Harvey.
One of the stars of Counting On has given birth to her first child!
All photographs  BBC
Here are six facts about Gossip Girl that you might not have known:
In an interview with The Hollywood Reporter, Ryan Gosling has revealed that he was recruited by the Church of Scientology.
An online campaign started by a star NFL player to raise money for victims of Hurricane Harvey has raised more than $37 million.
The Anassi family: Omete, Josephine, Atunga, Omete, and Kerubo.
Kenya Moore Fires Back at Haters Who Mocked Her and Her Marriage: "Enough Is Enough"
If you're looking for a place to live in Los Angeles, you might want to check out this one.
All images subject to copyright.
This year’s iHeartRadio Fiesta Latina will celebrate the best in Latin music with performances by Nacho, Gente De Zona, Don Omar, CNCO, Reik, Jesse y Joy and Camila Cabello.
Michael Crichton was one of Steven Spielberg’s biggest fans.
It looks like Jennifer Lopez and Alex Rodriguez are going to be hitting the gym together soon.
If you're like us, you're probably looking to cut down on the amount of money you spend on clothes.
Leonardo DiCaprio joins the growing list of celebrities getting involved in helping Hurricane Harvey relief efforts.
It's been 20 years since Diana, Princess of Wales, died in a car crash in Paris.
If there’s one thing Game of Thrones fans can be sure of, it’s that there will be a major plot twist in every episode.
Flavor Flav is suing Public Enemy co-founder Chuck D and two business managers, accusing them of cheating him out of royalties and merchandising revenue.
It’s not easy being in a relationship in the public eye.
A selection of photos from around the world this week:
All pictures are copyrighted.
It’s the end of an era.
It's not every day you see a mother and daughter who look so much alike.
It's been seven months since Kendall Jenner and Blake Griffin first stepped out together, but the A-list couple continues to keep their romance largely out of the spotlight.
It's time for a change.
We Should Listen to Palestinians, Not Selena Gomez (Or Other Cele...
A big swirling bucket of the latest rumors, celebrity news and Hollywood gossip.
We're used to celebrities donating money and time to help those in need, but what about donating food?
It was a family celebration for Gigi Hadid and Zayn Malik this week, when they united with their loved ones to celebrate the Muslim festival of Eid.
A standing ovation for Angelina Jolie!
Jennifer Lawrence and Darren Aronofsky are in Italy!
Pop star Taylor Swift teases a new single during a college football game.
Russell Wilson surprised his wife, Ciara, with a date night at the Seattle Art Museum.
Zayn Malik has gone hair-free in a new photo shared by his mother, Trisha Malik.
Lil Wayne is back in the hospital.
It's official.
Former NFL star Terrell Owens announced on “Good Morning America” Tuesday that he is set to join the cast of “Dancing With the Stars” alongside professional partner Cheryl Burke for the show’s 25th season.
Ozzy Osbourne and Sharon Osbourne renew their vows in Las Vegas on Mother’s Day.
It's been an eventful week for the cast of Riverdale.
Celebrities are banding together to help those affected by Hurricane Harvey.
Actor Frankie Muniz, "Shark Tank" star Barbara Corcoran and reality TV star Drew Scott are among the celebrities taking part in the 25th season of "Dancing With the Stars."
A selection of photos from around the world this week:
Whether you're heading to the beach, the pool, or the gym this summer, you'll want to make sure your lipstick looks its best.
All images are copyrighted.
How do you feel about writing a book?
The 20-year-old reality TV star throws a tantrum at the dinner table when she finds out she can’t eat anything being served on her new show, Life of Kylie.
If you’re a fan of the ABC series, you’ve been constantly refreshing your news feed over the last few days, anxiously...
We’re taking a look back at some of Gigi Hadid’s best runway looks from the past few years.
It's a boy!
GQ's Most Man of the Year: James Norton
All images subject to copyright.
Whoopi Goldberg opens up about why she decided to return to The View!
The Hills star Lauren Conrad has revealed her first collection at New York Fashion Week.
After months of anticipation, American Horror Story: Apocalypse has finally arrived.
It's a good thing he's not afraid of heights.
The Real Housewives of New Jersey's Melissa Gorga says her co-star Danielle Staub "brings something to the table" this season.
Find out more about TrendolizerTM at get.trendolizer.com
A big swirling bucket of the latest rumors, celebrity news and Hollywood gossip.
A look at some of the most popular children’s shows on British TV.
It’s that time of year again.
All images are copyrighted.
It’s a trend that’s sweeping the Kardashian-Jenner family.
Do you know how many seconds it takes for a microwave to heat up?
Sarah Paulson, star of American Horror Story: Hotel, is the kind of actress who disappears completely into whatever character she's playing.
ABC’s senior VP of alternative series, specials, and late-night programming talks to Variety about filming the breakup completely unedited, plus choosing to air the footage completely unedited.
He was the runner-up on Rachel Lindsay’s season of The Bachelorette, but now Peter Kraus says he’s happy not to be the lead on Arie Luyendyk Jr.’s season of The Bachelor.
The Duggar sisters want a judge to block Josh from joining them in their privacy case.
The atmosphere behind a fashion show is chaotic, chaotic, chaotic.
It’s that time of year again!
As the finale of Teen Mom 2 airs on Tuesday, we’re taking a look back at some of the show’s most dramatic moments.
As New York Fashion Week draws to a close, we take a look back at the week that was for one 17-year-old model.
Denim-on-Denim Great Again!
It’s that time of year again.
The British soulman returns with “Too Good At Goodbyes,” his first release since 2015’s Spectre, which became the first James Bond theme to hit No.
All images are copyrighted.
Sam Smith says he’s “incredibly single” as he prepares for the release of his second album, In the Lonely Hour.
Pop star Kelly Clarkson’s 4-year-old daughter already has her sights set on a future husband.
The Marvel Cinematic Universe is coming to an end.
Goop has launched a new magazine, and it’s all about mud.
Pop star Kelis has finally revealed what goes into her milkshake that brings all the boys in the yard.
If you're a fan of Game of Thrones and Taylor Swift, you're in for a treat.
Bobby Brown is suing TV One over a film about his daughter, Bobbi Kristina Brown.
It’s that time of year again!
A look back at some of the most memorable moments from the MTV Video Music Awards.
It looks like the Teen Mom OG drama will continue, as Farrah Abraham has come out to say she will not be ending her feud with costar Amber Portwood anytime soon.
A Shiloh star has died at the age of 35.
John Mayer and Nicki Minaj aren’t the first celebrities to use Twitter to poke fun at each other.
What do you do if you're going through a divorce?
Actress Busy Philipps explains why she was jealous of Mean Girls co-star Lindsay Lohan.
It’s not easy being a child star!
Check out the full list of winners below.
She was the runner-up on The Bachelor and the runner-up on The Bachelorette.
Happy birthday, daughter!
Joseph Duggar Weds Kendra Caldwell and Dubs Their First Kiss "Amazing"
If you want to know what might come in season 3 of the Starz drama “Outlander,” read on.
Watch This BBC News Anchor Hilariously Fail and Then Masterfully Recover on Live Television
"I've had two kids, and it still wasn't at that level of pain."
All pictures are copyrighted.
Did you hear the one about the difference between a chicken and a pig?
It’s that time of year again.
Check out the winners and losers of the 69th Primetime Emmy Awards below.
In the latest episode of Life of Kylie, the Keeping Up With the Kardashians stars get into a heated argument over whether or not they should be attending events together.
Jennifer Lawrence has revealed that Kim Kardashian helped her get through the "dark" part of her new film,'Mother!'.
Marcus Mumford has a net worth of $10 million.
A pair of custom Meghan Markle slippers are being sent to Kensington Palace ahead of her wedding to Prince Harry. "The Royal Wedding is only a few weeks away and while everyone's buzzing about who will design Meghan Markle's wedding dress, we've been working behind-the-scenes on a pair of
Emma Stone says she "can't even imagine what my life would be without Ryan Gosling."
"DWTS" stars Drew Scott and Emma Slater have been juggling more than just the competition as both stars plan their weddings!
Apple cider vinegar (ACV) is made from the fermentation of apple cider apples.
Stephen Colbert kicked off the 69th annual Primetime Emmy Awards ceremony on Sunday with a monologue that celebrated - and skewered - many of the night's nominees, including "This Is Us" star Milo Ventimiglia.
Hoda Kotb, the newly-christened co-anchor of NBC’s “Today,” says she’s not making Matt Lauer money.
How do you get smooth, sleek hair from just air drying?
As Reese Witherspoon celebrates her 41st birthday, we take a look back at her best red carpet looks.
She's best known for her role as Mandy Moore in This Is Us, but now she's taking on a new role as the new face of Garnier.
Angelina Jolie talks about how she misses her mother, Marcheline Bertrand, who died of cancer 10 years ago, more than ever.
Star Wars star Harrison Ford has spoken out for the first time about his affair with Carrie Fisher.
Grey's Anatomy's Jo and Alex will finally get married in the season 14 finale.
After 14 years, The Doctors is coming to an end.
John Legend's daughter is already roasting her dad for his bad eyesight.
Scarlett Johansson and Romain Dauriac have settled their custody dispute.
All images are copyrighted.
The Bachelorette star Andi Dorfman says Arie Luyendyk Jr.'s decision to leave the show was the biggest twist of the summer.
Former Bachelorette Andi Dorfman says she blames herself for her break-up with Josh Murray.
If you need a little help deciphering what's going on on your next TV series, you've come to the right place.
She’s one of the world’s highest-paid pop stars, but Kelly Clarkson has revealed that she turned down millions of dollars to co-write one of her biggest hits.
“I’m almost broke swimming in legal fees CAA tried but couldn’t book me anything cause my ex wife killed my reputation so no one wants to hire me.”
It’s that time of year again.
All images subject to copyright.
Check out this week's must-reads from the world of fashion...
Here's a look back at some of the most memorable moments from the 20th annual Screen Actors Guild Awards, which took place at the Shrine Auditorium in Los Angeles on Sunday night.
The Kardashians have come a long way in the last 15 years.
All photographs courtesy of Getty Images and Imaxtree.
All images are copyrighted.
Melania Trump wore a sparkly Monique Lhuillier dress to the White House Historical Association dinner on Tuesday night.
It’s that time of year again.
It's a girl!
A selection of photos from around the world this week:
American Vandal co-creators Dan Perrault and Tony Yacenda explain their inspirations for the Netflix mockumentary.
The Oscar-winning actress auditioned for the role of Serena van der Woodsen on Gossip Girl, according to the show's creator.
Whether you are in the United States, Canada, Australia, New Zealand, Europe, Asia or South America, we have a product for you.
If you're in the market for a new pair of glasses, we've got you covered.
Michelle Rounds, the ex-wife of Rosie O'Donnell who battled her for custody of their young daughter, died Monday at her Florida home of an apparent suicide.
Grey’s Anatomy fans rejoice!
All the men in Jennifer Lopez's life showed their support for her this weekend.
A selection of photos from around the world this week:
We can't get enough of Alex Ohanian. Alex Ohanian is engaged to tennis great Serena Williams, who is mom to little Alexis Jr., and he posted a sweet sleeping photo of the little one on his Instagram account on Sunday with an equally sweet, adoring message: It's one of the
Laura Dern won her first Primetime Emmy for her supporting role in Big Little Lies.
It's one of the biggest nights in the fashion world.
All images are copyrighted.
Stealing a red carpet look just got a helluva lot easier, thanks to the hilarious (and honest) Rachel Bloom.
As Stephen Colbert opened the 2017 Emmy Awards with a song-and-dance number running through various shows up for Emmys this year, Colbert did a song-and-dance number running through various shows up for Emmys this year, including This Is Us, Stranger Things, and The Handmaid’s Tale
It's not every day you see celebrities wearing blue ribbons on the red carpet at an award show.
This Is Us star Sterling K. Brown won the Emmy for outstanding lead actor in a drama series at the 2017 Emmys on Sunday night.
Yvonne Strahovski is an Australian actress who has a net worth of $12 million.
How hot is he?
Issa Rae says the lack of Emmy nominations for her comedy series “invites us all to work harder.”
He’s hosting two major awards this year, and his wife is pregnant with their third child.
A big swirling bucket of the latest rumors, celebrity news and Hollywood gossip.
Will & Grace creators Max Mutchnick and David Kohan say the show's return will be "more or less a fantasy."
The 69th Annual Primetime Emmy Awards took place on Sunday night at the Microsoft Theater in Los Angeles, California.
The TelevisionAcademy.com sites look and perform best when using a modern browser.
The Voice and TODAY host’s mother, Pattie Daly Caruso, died Sunday at her home in Palm Desert, California.
From Alec Baldwin's birth control impression to Kate McKinnon giving Hillary Clinton a shout-out, the 2017 Emmys had it all.
In our series of letters from the stars of The Real Housewives of Dallas, LeeAnne finds herself in a sticky situation after peeing on a moving bus.
A Saturday Night Live writer and a producer from The Late Show reunited on the Emmys red carpet after a social media plea went viral.
This year’s Emmys were the least-watched in the show’s history.
All images are copyrighted.
It wasn’t meant to be.
From the inseparable Big Little Lies ladies to the stunning This is Us cast, we caught every moment not shown on TV.
In the world of social media, there's no such thing as an over-sharer. We know she's not one to talk about dating, we know she's gay, and we know she told GQ in a cover story that she's the antithesis of an over-sharer.
If you're a Tomb Raider fan, you're in for a treat!
The final episode of Please Like Me!
It's that time of year again: the Emmy Awards.
If you've ever wondered how to blend your eye shadow, you've come to the right place. If you're going to take the time out of your busy day to blend your shadow to perfection, you might as well smooth some eye shadow primer onto your lids to keep everything in place.
The Latin American Music Awards (AMAs) pay tribute to the top Latin artists in the market today with fans voting for the ultimate winners.
All images are copyrighted.
The Daily Dish is Bravo's new place to catch up with the stars of The Real Housewives of America.
The Real Housewives of Orange County's Tamra Judge has responded to speculation about her husband's sexuality.
"Modern Family" star Ariel Winter is fighting back against body shamers on Instagram.
It took more than Hollywood magic to turn Emma Stone, the svelte actress from La La Land, into Billie Jean King in her new movieBattle of the Sexes.
Ivanka Trump has revealed that she suffered from postpartum depression after the births of her three children.
Kenya Moore will definitely not be returning to The Real Housewives of Atlanta for season 11 as a new report reveals more details about her exit from the show.
Jada Pinkett Smith is denying she is a Scientologist after former member Leah Remini claimed she was one.
It’s hard to imagine Kim Kardashian being married to anyone but Kanye West.
Tristan Thompson has paid tribute to the man who introduced him to Khloe Kardashian, saying: ‘I’m soo happy to be on this journey together with you and creating this angel from the man above.
"Domestic violence is an incredibly serious issue and fabricated and proven false claims should not be used to unjustly slander the falsely accused."
Sam Waterston, who starred on Law & Order for 16 seasons, will reprise his role as prosecutor Jack McCoy on Law & Order: SVU.
Kevin Hart’s rep has confirmed that the comedian was the victim of an extortion attempt.
It's not every day you get to write an open letter to your own mother.
Breaking Bad star Aaron Paul and his wife, Lauren Paul, are expecting their first child.
The former Today host’s wife has filed for divorce after months of separation.
Gigi Hadid, Bella Hadid, and Anwar Hadid.
It's official: Halle Berry and Alex Da Kid are dating.
All images are copyrighted.
It’s that time of year again when people across the United States are celebrating Thanksgiving.
This Is Us fans, here are five things you probably didn’t know about Jack Pearson.
Tracee Ellis Ross drops some serious bars during her Carpool Karaoke ride with Big Sean.
White House adviser Kellyanne Conway called Sunday’s Emmy Awards ceremony the “worst ever.”
It was an emotional night on "America's Got Talent" as Evie Clair returned to the show after the death of her father Amos Abplanalp.
Landon Clements is no longer part of Southern Charm, but what is she up to these days?
Olivia Munn says she had to pay for her own makeup and wardrobe in the all-female reboot of the Ocean’s Trilogy.
All pictures subject to copyright.
Check it out!
In case you missed it, here's a round-up of some of the most memorable moments from the latest season of Keeping Up with the Kardashians. 04 of 10 When they took a trip to Japan and she was'so disgusted' with her sisters' 'crazy outfits' Khloe Kardashian/Instagram;
Sabrina the Teenage Witch is back and this time, she's going DARK.
Hurricane Maria could cost Puerto Rico $45 billion to $95 billion in damage - a devastating blow to the island's already ailing economy.
It’s one of the more unusual couples in Hollywood.
She was suspended for 10 days last year over comments she made on a podcast about the network's CO vaccine policy and former President Barack Obama's racial identity.
"I'm interested in criticism based on fact, not on projections."
It's time for a new face to take Hollywood by storm.
It's official: Stranger Things will return to Netflix for a third season.
How do I reset my Google or Facebook password?
This Is Us star Sterling K. Brown didn’t outlast the play-off music at Sunday’s Emmy Awards, but he was able to finish his acceptance speech backstage.
Fergie broke down in tears when talking about her split from Josh Duhamel.
All images are copyrighted.
A selection of photos from around the world this week:
.
A big swirling bucket of the latest rumors, celebrity news and Hollywood gossip.
Check out Ben Stiller and Fred Aremisen in the video above!
Rachel Bilson stepped out in L.A.
What do you do if you’re diagnosed with cancer for the second time?
The Real Housewives of Dallas premieres on Bravo on Monday, April 11 at 10/9c.
A selection of photos from around the world this week:
Check out Katy Perry's rendition of Janet Jackson's "What Have You Done for Me Lately" during her opening night of Witness: The Tour in Montreal.
"You put a 25-year-old girl up here next to me and I tell ya what, I’ll give her a run for her money."
Are you ready for your big day? I now know what true love looks like!” Related: Love Story Beginnings: How Celebrity Couples First Met Star-crossed lovers!
Supermodel Gigi Hadid rocked a daring white outfit in New York City on Thursday.
All images are copyrighted.
Brian Austin Green is an American actor who has a net Worth of $8 million.
The SAG-AFTRA union has launched an investigation into safety on the set of Riverdale, following an incident involving one of the show’s stars.
Cleft lip and cleft palate are birth defects that occur when a puppy’s lip or mouth do not form properly during pregnancy. Cleft lip (often referred to incorrectly as a “hair lip” or more appropriately as palatoschisis or congenital oronasal fistula) and cleft palate are birth defects that
A big swirling bucket of the latest rumors, celebrity news and Hollywood gossip.
Beyoncé and Jay-Z do it big (much like everything else the power couple does). When Beyoncé and Jay-Z do date night, they do it big (much like everything else the power couple does).
All images are copyrighted.
All images are copyrighted.
Jim Parsons and Todd Spiewak were together for nearly 15 years before they decided to finally tie the knot earlier this year - and according to the Big Bang Theory actor, it was well worth the wait.
Paris Hilton is marking the 15th anniversary of "The Simple Life" with a series of social media posts.
All photographs by Maeve McDermott / Getty Images.
Jay-Z explains why President Trump is a good thing in a new interview with David Letterman.
A big swirling bucket of the latest rumors, celebrity news and Hollywood gossip.
Southern Charm star Naomie Olindo tells The Daily Dish that she now wishes she hadn't been "so mean" to ex-boyfriend Craig Conover.
President Donald Trump’s wife is making her first official appearance in the White House.
All images are copyrighted.
Mandy Moore celebrated her birthday with a group of girlfriends on Saturday.
Prince Harry of Wales and Meghan Markle as they hold hands together on a date night while out in London, England on February 3, 2017. Prince Harry attends the launch of the team selected to represent the UK in the 2017 Invictus Games in Toronto at The Tower of London, on May 30, 2017 in London, England.
Lionel Richie and Luke Bryan have joined Katy Perry and Ryan Seacrest on American Idol.
If you’ve ever seen a military-themed TV show, you’ll know what we’re talking about.
Ever wondered what Stiles' real name is?
One of Princess Diana's most iconic outfits is going up for auction.
No charges will be filed against Audrina Patridge's estranged husband, Corey Bohan, after the former Hills star filed a domestic abuse case against him, ET has learned.
"Rent" star Idina Menzel married her boyfriend Aaron Lohr over the weekend.
Southern Charm's Cameran Eubanks is pregnant with her first child, and she's already showing off her growing bump on social media.
She’s dead.
It’s been almost 30 years since the release of one of the most beloved movies of all time.
It’s official: Prince Harry and Meghan Markle are dating.
It’s been a roller-coaster ride of emotions for the Bellas.
If you’ve ever wanted to go shoe shopping with Sarah Jessica Parker (and who doesn’t?), you’re out of luck.
Pennywise will be back.
When Ryan Reynolds and Blake Lively enjoy the country life, they're not cleaning chicken coops and milking dairy cows. When Ryan Reynolds and Blake Lively enjoy the country life, they're not cleaning chicken coops and milking dairy cows.
All images are copyrighted.
Farrah Abraham and Simon Saran are sparking romance rumors on social media.
Oily skin is a common problem for many women.
It’s been a long time coming.
Kim Kardashian explains why she decided to return to Paris for a fashion show.
Comedian and actor Pete Davidson has found a sympathetic fan base by transforming his own personal issues and tragedies into wince-worthy, hilarious confessions on stage.
The Menendez brothers, who were convicted of killing their parents in their Beverly Hills mansion nearly 30 years ago, have been reunited in the Southern California prison San Diego's R.J.
American Horror Story: 1984.
As Gwyneth Paltrow celebrates her 45th birthday, we take a look back at her most memorable red carpet looks.
It’s been almost two years since we last saw the Pearson family on our TV screens.
"Dancing with the Stars" star Sasha Pieterse says she's "feeling like myself again" after being diagnosed with a medical condition that caused her to gain weight.
In case you missed it, here’s your chance to meet Desiree O.
Milo Ventimiglia says his "This Is Us" co-star Mandy Moore was "crying every day" during his death scene.
Lyle and Erik Menendez, two brothers who murdered their parents in their Los Angeles home, are the subject of a new TV documentary.
Dancing With the Stars contestant Debbie Gibson says her time on the show has healed her.
A big swirling bucket of the latest rumors, celebrity news and Hollywood gossip.
Megyn Kelly says she has no regrets about asking Jane Fonda about her plastic surgery.
Patty Jenkins is the first female director to be paid more than $10 million for a live-action film.
Meet Sohni and her cubs, the first Sumatran tigers to be born at Disney’s Animal Kingdom.
Grey's Anatomy returns for its 14th season on Thursday, September 28 at 8/7c on ABC.
If you're a fan of Keeping Up With The Kardashians, you're in for a treat.
It's official: Kim Kardashian and Kanye West are expecting their third child.
If you've ever wondered how to apply fake lashes, then you've come to the right place.
If you’re looking for a new sitcom to sink your teeth into this summer, then you’ve come to the right place.
It wasn’t just Beyonce, Drake and Kanye West who surprised us this year.
All images are copyrighted.
All images are copyrighted.
The best Bella Hadid street-style moments from the past few years.
It’s official: He’s back.
Are Will Truman (Eric McCormack) and Grace Adler (Debra Messing) about to become a family?
As she prepares to release her first album in four years, Miley Cyrus tells us why she wants to be more ‘normal’.
Playboy founder Hugh Hefner, who has died at the age of 91, was a leading figure in the sexual revolution, but he also saw it as an oppressive pig. Hugh Hefner saw the sexual revolution as a companion to the movements for civil rights and free speech.
Country star Jessie James Decker is bringing wintry Christmas vibes to sunny Nashville!
The Latin American Music Awards (AMAs) pay tribute to the top Latin artists in the market today with fans voting for the ultimate winners.
It’s not every day you get to work with a country music legend.
The wife of a National Football League player has sung the national anthem before a game.
All images subject to copyright.
The Playboy mansion, the home of Playboy magazine founder Hugh Hefner, is under contract to be sold to a neighbor, according to property owner Playboy Enterprises. Roger Yu USA TODAY The Playboy mansion, the home of Playboy magazine founder Hugh Hefner, is under contract to be sold
It’s a girl!
Hocus Pocus is returning from the grave as a TV movie remake without any of the original cast.
A big swirling bucket of the latest rumors, celebrity news and Hollywood gossip.
Coffee is one of the most important religions in the world.
Check out our picks for the best awards-winning Halloween costumes of all time.
Beyonce has stepped up to the plate to help those affected by two recent natural disasters.
Kaley Cuoco tells a funny story about being stopped by airport security for having a wine opener in her bag.
A Smart Budapest Frumon sok kérdés fog elhangzani annak érdekében, hogy Budapesten hangslyosabban jelenjen meg adatkzpont vroskormnyzs témja
Macklemore and Ryan Lewis stopped by The Ellen DeGeneres Show on Tuesday to promote his new album, The Heist.
Fans of Boy Meets World, Home Improvement and Dinosaurs will soon be able to stream them on Hulu.
All images are copyrighted.
It’s hard to believe it’s been 25 years.
Playboy Enterprises founder Hugh Hefner has died at the age of 91.
Jason Isaacs, who plays Captain Gabriel Lorca in the new “Star Trek” series, spoke to Variety about the character’s history, his plans for Sonequa Martin-Green’s court-martialed Michael Burnham, and how his work more than a decade and a half ago on the military drama “
It's 20 years since one of the most famous criminal trials in American history began.
It’s that time of year again.
Shahs of Sunset's Golnesa Gharachedaghi says she's "looking for some very healthy sperm."
If you've ever wondered what it's like to be a make up artist on the red carpet, then you've come to the right place.
Playboy founder Hugh Hefner died on Wednesday at the age of 91.
Former Fifth Harmony Members Show Support for Normani as She Announces Debut Solo Album Dopamine
Justin Bieber and Selena Gomez have reportedly called off their engagement after two years together.
As New York Fashion Week draws to a close, we take a look back at the week that was for one 17-year-old model.
All pictures subject to copyright.
Pop star Justin Bieber's manager, Scooter Braun, admits that the singer was in a "dark place" when he was arrested for driving under the influence in 2014.
Amber Rose and 21 Savage are engaged!
Captain America star Sebastian Stan issued an apology after sharing a meme comparing the 1994 ice skating controversy between Nancy Kerrigan and Tonya Harding to the #TakeAKnee movement.
Singer Ariana Grande is pushing for gun control after the shooting in Las Vegas.
Sofia Richie and Scott Disick seem pretty smitten with one another.
The Real Housewives of New York City star flies to Puerto Rico to help victims of Hurricane Maria.
The world has lost one of rock 'n' roll's most influential artists.
A year after the worst mass shooting in modern U.S. history, the Las Vegas Review-Journal examined how the 10-minute attack changed the community.
A selection of photos from around the world this week:
65 Genius Couples Halloween Costumes Attending Halloween celebrations with your other half? 65 Genius Couples Halloween Costumes Attending Halloween celebrations with your other half?
The red-carpet premieres of Blade Runner 2049 and Marshall have been cancelled in the wake of the Las Vegas shooting.
New Orleans Mayor Mitch Landrieu delivered the following address at the 133rd Annual Gridiron Club & Foundation Dinner on March 3, 2018
In the wake of Sunday night’s mass shooting in Las Vegas, country singer Maren Morris has released a song to raise money for the victims and their families.
Frankie Muniz is ready to bust out his best boy band dance moves!
In the wake of Sunday night’s mass shooting in Las Vegas, which left at least 59 people dead and more than 500 injured, late-night hosts have been speaking out against gun control.
A selection of photos from around the world this week:
The world is full of amazing people, says Ellen DeGeneres.
Oscar-winning actor Jared Leto is set to play Hugh Hefner in a film about the late Playboy founder.
It’s been a year since Kim Kardashian West was robbed at gunpoint in Paris.
A year after Tom Petty’s death at the age of 67, his friends and fans recall the last time they saw him.
The cast of Mean Girls are raising money for victims of the Las Vegas shooting.
Martha Stewart has been dressing up for Halloween for more than 40 years.
Kim Kardashian explains why she decided to return to Paris for a fashion show.
All images are copyrighted.
A selection of photos from around the world this week:
In our series The Setback, OprahMag.com digital director Arianna Davis chats with successful women about a life obstacle they thought was the worst thing that happened to them...until it ended up being the best thing. Failure is just life trying to move us in another direction.” In our series The Setback,
"Sex and the City" stars Sarah Jessica Parker, Chris Noth and Kim Cattrall in "Sex and the City 2."
If you’re looking for a way to cool down this summer without breaking the bank, Applebee’s has got your back.
Miley Cyrus says she’s "not afraid" of who she used to be.
The latest episode of "American Horror Story: Cult" finally confirmed that Kai's group of crazies were the ones underneath the creepy clown masks.
The two Stranger Things stars have been spotted holding hands in Paris.
As This Is Us comes to an end, we take a look back at some of the show’s most memorable moments.
Celine Dion returned to the stage in Las Vegas on Tuesday night, two days after the city and the country were rocked by the deadliest mass shooting in modern American history.
"I feel the soul of the nation."
The house that serves as the central setting for Luca Guadagnino's Oscar-nominated "Call Me by Your Name" is up for sale.
Miley Cyrus isn't one to hold back when sharing stories, so it's no surprise that the singer's new interview on The Howard Stern Show covered a wide range of topics, including her fiancé, Liam Hemsworth, the MTV VMAs, her new music and marijuana use.
She's a star on the world's best-known sports team, but now she's in trouble with the law.
Pitbull will receive the honor of becoming the first-ever recipient of the Latin AMA Dick Clark Achievement Award at the third annual Latin American Music Awards on October 26.
It’s the end of an era.
If you’re a fan of Taylor Swift’s music, you’re in for a treat.
Kate Winslet and James Cameron are reuniting for a series of Avatar sequels.
Ellen DeGeneres took Oprah Winfrey on a shopping spree at a supermarket in Los Angeles.
All images are copyrighted.
Actor Willie Garson, who played Carrie Bradshaw's gay best friend Stanford Blanch on "Sex and the City," has hit back at Kim Cattrall over the failed "Sex and the City" movie.
It’s almost time for the return of Total Bellas.
Taylor Swift and Kanye West's beef reached a head after the rapper released his track Famous with the lyrics: "I feel like me and Taylor might still have sex, Why?
Law & Order: SVU's Mariska Hargitay Shines in Law & Order: SVU Mama Peek: You Don't Mess With Mama Bear Benson Gossip Entertainment / Gossip 1743 Views
The next two Fast and the Furious films have been delayed.
We've got all the latest on the eldest Kardashian, whether you're looking for the most recent headlines on the happy couple or looking for some punk goth fashion and beauty inspiration.
All the red-carpet fashion from the 2018 Emmys Open Gallery.
If you’re looking for a simple overalls look that won’t break the bank, this is the one for you.
Mark Salling, best known as Noah "Puck" Puckerman on Glee, has died at the age of 35.
Asa Soltan Rahmati boyfriend, dating affair, children, marriage, net worth, career, age, and wiki.
In the run-up to the finale of Scandal this spring, actress Katie Lowes talked to ELLE.com about being a working mom on a show run by working moms, dancing to Britney Spears with Joe Morton, and, of course, the end of the show.
As the 20th anniversary of Mean Girls approaches, we take a look back at some of the film's most memorable moments.
Kim Zolciak-Biermann has been talking about having the cameras around all the time.
Teresa Giudice sets the record straight on her relationship with husband Joe: He ''Never Mistreated Me''
Freeform's The Bold Type has been renewed for a third season.
El Poder en Ti
Miley Cyrus breaks down in tears as she gives Hillary Clinton a hug on The Tonight Show!
It’s been a busy few days for Pink.
If you're a fan of Goth rock 'n' roll, you've come to the right place.
A selection of photos from around the world this week:
The Platinum Life premieres on E! Network is ready to turn up your Sunday nights starting October 15, 2017 at 10 PM with its latest reality show – The Platinum Life – starring Shantel Jackson, Asiah Azante, LoLa Monroe, Nazanin Mandi, La’Myia Good, Crystal Smith, and
Country star Chris Young dedicated his concert to the victims of the Las Vegas shooting.
Jeremy Meeks and his estranged wife, Melissa, have reached a custody agreement for their 9-year-old son.
Jackie Chan has confirmed that a Rush Hour 4 is in the works.
All pictures are copyrighted.
It’s been a long time coming.
It's been a long time coming.
Kim Kardashian West, Kourtney Kardashian, Kendall Jenner, Kylie Jenner, Kim Kardashian West... they're all here!
It's that time of year again.
Paris Hilton has launched her own line of cosmetics, inspired by mermaids and unicorns.
It’s been a long time coming.
It’s that time of year again.
Kim Zolciak and NeNe Leakes are not friends.
Watch Grey's Anatomy Thursdays at 8/7c on ABC.
All images are copyrighted.
Oliver Queen and Felicity Smoak are back!
Miley Cyrus paid tribute to Tom Petty on 'The Tonight Show' on Thursday.
It’s not easy being mistaken for another actress.
A look back at some of the best movies of the past 10 years.
It's been a rough year for Backstreet Boy Aaron Carter.
If you've ever wondered where Jen Bunney is now, you're in luck.
The world as we know it has caught up to the one Ridley Scott imagined when he directed the 2019-set “Blade Runner,” and yet, for all the influence the dystopian cult favorite has had on other sci-fi movies, Scott’s vision of Los Angeles still looks as mind-blowingly futuristic now
All images subject to copyright.
It’s Miley Week on The Tonight Show, which means Miley Cyrus has taken over Jimmy Fallon’s program for a residency of fun-filled antics and electric performances you’d expect from the pop superstar.
It’s been a long time coming.
Comedian Ralphie May died after going into cardiac arrest at the age of 45, The Hollywood Reporter confirmed Friday.
Once Upon a Time returns for its seventh season in October.
If you've been living under a rock for the past few months, then you'll know that Chrissy Teigen is a social media queen.
All images subject to copyright.
It looks like the feud between the stars of this season of Dancing With the Stars is finally over!
If you’re reading this on your phone, you might have missed it.
It’s official: Beyoncé and Jay-Z’s twins are just like us!
Lady Gaga has paid tribute to her friend Sonja Durham, who died from cancer on Sunday.
Check out Kit Harington and Rose Leslie’s engagement ring below!
It's not every day you get to share a video of yourself licking each other's tongues, but that's exactly what Bella Thorne and Tana Mongeau did.
A statue of Anton Yelchin has been unveiled at a service that was attended by Oscar winner Jennifer Lawrence and several of his collaborators in the Star Trek franchise.
April Love Geary and Robin Thicke are expecting their first child together.
All images are copyrighted.
All images are copyrighted.
Adam Sandler Says He Gets a 'Little Jumpy' Around Taylor Swift Because He Doesn't Want to 'Blow It' for His Kids.'
One of the world’s most famous fashion designers has said she’s sorry for defending a man accused of sexual misconduct.
George Clooney says he’s never seen any of Harvey Weinstein’s alleged sexual misconduct.
All images are copyrighted.
It's that time of year again.
What happens when you put several Real Housewives on a boat in Mexico with an open bar?
All images are copyrighted.
All images are copyrighted.
All images are copyrighted.
All images subject to copyright.
Halloween is just around the corner, and if you’re anything like me, you’ll be dressing up a lot this year.
Harvey Weinstein’s lawyer has responded to a report that one of his accusers settled a sexual abuse claim with an underage actor.
"I'm nothing but supportive and her biggest fan."
Mila Kunis describes her ideal day with husband Ashton Kutcher and their two children as " Cartoons, Pajamas and the Zoo".
Rosie O'Donnell and her daughter Chelsea are in a better place.
It's no secret that Vicki Gunvalson and Kelly Dodd have had their ups and downs during this season of The Real Housewives of Orange County.
A new documentary about the late singer George Michael has been released.
The velvety voice of Delilah Rene Luke is known far and wide for offering life-learned advice to her 8.3 million late-night listeners, but now the popular syndicated romance radio star is the one in need of support following the shattering death of her teenage son Zachariah to suicide.
It’s one of the most iconic soap operas of all time.
Victoria Monét Matched Her Nails to Her First, Second, and Third Grammy Awards
Check out PRETTYMUCH's new single "Teacher" below.
If you’ve been keeping up with “American Horror Story: Cult” over the past few weeks, you might have noticed a few hints about what’s to come.
In what is perhaps the fiercest and the most exhaustive attack against Donald Trump in hip-hop, Eminem “came to stomp” Tuesday night, calling the President everything from “Donald the b—-” to a “racist grandpa” in an explosive 4.5-minute freestyle rap.
Check out the winners of this year's Hip Hop Awards.
Miley Cyrus is one of the biggest pop stars in the world, but she’s also one of the most talented behind the wheel.
It's been a rough few weeks for Archie and Jughead on Riverdale.
The latest round in the long-running feud between Jimmy Kimmel and Matt Damon has come to an end.
All images are copyrighted.
Charmed star Alyssa Milano says she waited a few days to comment on the Harvey Weinstein allegations out of respect for his estranged wife, Georgina Chapman.
All images are copyrighted.
As allegations of sexual misconduct continue to mount, the disgraced film producer’s wife, Georgina Chapman, announced on Tuesday, October 10, that she is leaving him after 10 years of marriage.
It’s been a long time coming, but it’s finally here!
Kim Kardashian, Nicole Kidman, and more stars who are married to music!
All images are copyrighted.
All images are copyrighted.
Robert Pattinson is reportedly leaning on his good friend Katy Perry during this tough time.
Jessica Capshaw and Darby Stanchfield are getting their own spin-offs!
Selena Gomez and David Henrie have confirmed that a Wizards of Waverly Place sequel is in the works.
All photographs courtesy of AFP, EPA, Getty Images and Reuters
Jenna Bush Hager's net Worth and Salary.
As the kickoff to this year’s highly anticipated show, Ciara today announced six categories from the “2017 American Music Awards” nominees live on ABC’s “Good Morning America.”
Kate Beckinsale is the latest woman to come forward with a story about Harvey Weinstein’s alleged sexual misconduct, describing an incident from when the actress was just 17 years old.
Watch Grey's Anatomy Thursdays at 8/7c on ABC.
Alec Baldwin has denied that he "punched anyone over a parking spot". Alec Baldwin denies he 'punched anyone over a parking spot,' following assault arrest in New York Actor Alec Baldwin has denied that he "punched anyone over a parking spot" following his Friday arrest on an assault and harassment charges in
As a soon-to-be-mom of three, singer and reality star Jessie James Decker's pregnancy cravings probably don't come as much of a surprise to her at this point. As a soon-to-be-mom of three, singer and reality star Jessie James Decker's pregnancy cravings
The Platinum Life Recap: The Ladies Take a Trip to Vegas and Alycia Bella Opens up About Her Breakup With Ty Dolla $ign
Shonda Rhimes, Joan Rivers and the entire original cast of "Saturday Night Live" are among the television legends selected for induction into the Television Academy Hall of Fame.
What do you miss the most about wrestling after retiring from the WWE?
Punk fashion has come a long way since its heyday in the 1970s and 80s.
WAGS LA star Barbie Blank has confirmed her split from husband Sheldon Souray in an exclusive statement to Us Weekly.
In an interview with The New York Times, Tom Hanks discusses the recent allegations against Hollywood mogul Harvey Weinstein.
"This is probably the greatest day of my life." That's what Chester Bennington, late frontman of Linkin Park, said during the latest episode of Carpool Karaoke released Thursday.
The season 13 premiere of Supernatural felt entirely unlike anything the series has done before, with a feeling of profound loss and hopelessness permeating both the characters and the story, breathing new life into the old series.
Julianne Hough swears by the same beauty routine she did as a teenager.
All images are copyrighted.
Grey’s Anatomy star Caterina Scorsone has opened up about her character Amelia Shepherd and revealed she will have lighter experiences going forward!
Kourtney Kardashian’s bare butt made a flashy cameo in Sunday’s episode of Keeping Up with the Kardahians, and fans were loving it.
Do you want to take your dog with you on holiday? The hotels are Disney’s Yacht Club Resort, Disney Port Orleans Resort – Riverside, Disney’s Art of Animation Resort and the cabins at Disney’s Fort Wilderness Resort & Campground.
Bill Murray and Jan Vogler perform a West Side Story medley on The Late Show with Stephen Colbert.
All images subject to copyright.
George Clooney denied accusations by former “ER” actress Vanessa Marquez that he helped to have her blacklisted after she reported suffering sexual and racial harassment on the set of the NBC medical drama.
Southern Charm's Cameran Eubanks is pregnant with her first child.
“I’ve been eating like a beast and I don’t like it, LOL,” wrote Kardashian, nearly a month after expressing how much she misses her pre-pregnancy body.
Emily Simpson, who just completed her first season on The Real Housewives of Orange County, says she was surprised by how many episodes revolved around her husband, Shane Simpson.
It’s time for the dance move generator on The Tonight Show last night, and Jimmy Fallon and Blake Lively didn’t hold back in getting after it to some funky moves like “The Catching The Bouquet” and more!!!
Nikki Reed stepped out at Variety‘s 2017 Power of Women luncheon in Beverly Hills on Friday, and almost 3-month-old daughter Bodhi Soleil with husband Ian Somerhalder wasn’t far from her mind.
All images are copyrighted.
A video of Courtney Love warning young actresses about Harvey Weinstein has been burning up the internet.
It's not every day you get to celebrate your sister's birthday, but Gigi Hadid has done just that.
Woody Allen says he was unaware of the seriousness of the sexual assault allegations against Harvey Weinstein.
Game of Thrones actress Sophie Turner is engaged to singer Joe Jonas.
It's another vacation, another public display of affection for Sofia Richie and Scott Disick.
One of the Jonas Brothers is selling his house!
It all started with a sex tape.
All images are copyrighted.
She’s one of the world’s most famous cannabisTrademarkiaTrademarkiaTrademarkiaTrademarkiaTrademarkiaTrademarkiaTrademarkiaTrademarkiaTrademarkiaTrademarkiaTrademarkiaTrademarkiaTrademarkiaTrademarkiaTrademarkiaTrademarkiaTrademarkiaTrademarkiaTrademarkiaTrademarkiaTrademarkiaTrademarkiaTrademarkiaTrademarkiaTrademarkiaTrademarkiaTrademarkiaTrademarkiaTrademarkiaTrademarkiaTrademarkiaTrademarkiaTrademarkiaTrademarkiaTrademarkiaTrademarkiaTrademarkiaTrademarkiaTrademarkiaTrademarkiaTrademarkiaTrademarkiaTrademarkiaTrademarkiaTrademarkiaTrademarkiaTrademarkiaTrademarkiaTrademarkiaTrademarkia
Millie Bobby Brown, who plays Eleven in Stranger Things, has revealed the first footage from the second season at MCM Comic Con.
The singer posted a photo on Instagram showing his arm in a cast.
Lena Luthor is going to be the new owner of CatCo in tonight's all new episode of Supergirl!
All photos courtesy Kensington Palace.
The first photo from Black Panther has been released, and it’s pretty epic!
V From BTS Is Fully Twinning With Harry Styles in the ‘Dynamite’ Video.
All images are copyrighted.
Daniel Salazar could be returning to Fear the Walking Dead in some capacity in Season 5.
Hollywood is full of leg-baring dresses.
Mayim Bialik says she regrets saying women should be able to dress modestly.
It’s been a roller-coaster ride of emotions for Arie Luyendyk Jr.
It’s the end of an era.
All images are copyrighted.
Meet the 8 Young Women Poised to Take Over Hollywood
It's that time of year again.
The # Me Too movement against sexual harassment and assault in Hollywood is gaining momentum.
It's not every day you get to celebrate your first Mother's Day with your new baby, but that's exactly what Amy Poehler and her husband, Dale Jr., did.
It all started with a few brave women coming forward about mistreatment at the hands of the Oscar-winning producer.
The Only Way Is Essex star La'Myia Goodand and husband Eric Bellinger are doing a couples photoshoot...
Country star Jessie James Decker is bringing wintry Christmas vibes to sunny Nashville!
Jessie James Decker is expecting her third child with NFL star Eric Decker.
All images are copyrighted.
Harvey Weinstein resigned from the board of the company he co-founded, as the company continues to try to distance itself from the disgraced mogul.
"Fixer Upper" couple Chip and Joanna Gaines are returning to TV with a new network.
Project Runway finalist Mychael Knight has died at the age of 39.
It's that time of year again... Halloween!
All photographs courtesy ELLE.
As Zac Efron prepares to return to the big screen in We Are Your Friends, we take a look back at his early career.
As part of our series of letters from African journalists, we asked some of the people we spoke to about their favourite places to visit in the continent.
As frustrating as The Flash's Season 4 premiere was in its unwillingness to follow up on the big Season 3 cliffhanger, there's a lot to be... As frustrating as The Flash's Season 4 premiere was in its unwillingness to follow up on the big Season 3 cliffhanger, there's a lot to
It’s been a long time coming.
We caught up with costume designer Meredith Markworth-Pollack on the set of Dynasty to learn more about the show’s style-forward savesay savesay savesay savesay savesay savesay savesay savesay savesay savesay savesay savesay savesay savesay savesay savesay savesay savesay savesay savesay savesay savesay savesay savesay savesay savesay savesay savesay savesay savesay savesay savesay savesay savesay
All images are copyrighted.
Two-time Olympic medalist McKayla Maroney says she was molested for years by a former USA Gymnastics team doctor, abuse she said started in her early teens and continued for the rest of her competitive career.
How to Watch 'The Nightmare Before Christmas' & More During Freeform's 31 Nights of Halloween
Pop star Diana Ross will receive a lifetime achievement award at this year’s American Music Awards.
All images are copyrighted.
She was suspended for 10 days last year over comments she made on a podcast about the network's CO vaccine policy and former President Barack Obama's racial identity.
Miley Cyrus has paid a surprise visit to one of the victims of the Las Vegas shooting.
Shailene Woodley and her rugby player boyfriend Ben Volavola stepped out on the red carpet for the first time as a couple last night.
Cole Sprouse revealed that not even his closest costars qualify for a discount on his photography services.
Rihanna has given fans a behind-the-scenes look at how she applies her make-up.
Harvey Weinstein Is in Denial About His Reputation and Future in Hollywood, Source Says Harvey Weinstein refuses to face the music.
It’s been a week of reckoning.
Do you love a good deal?
All images subject to copyright.
They may have crossed paths momentarily in the Once Upon a Time season seven premiere, but in the next new episode...
Denim-on-Denim Great Again!
Lana Del Rey has revealed that she had a “Harvey Weinstein type of character” in mind when she wrote her song ‘Cola’ and says that she won’t be performing it live again following the wide-ranging sexual misconduct claims levelled at the shamed Hollywood mogul.
A selection of photos from around the world this week:
Who is Amber Rose?
It was an emotional evening at this year’s CMT Artists of the Year ceremony, which brought some of the hardest-hitting road warriors and chart-toppers in country music – including Chris Stapleton, Florida Georgia Line, Keith Urban, Luke Bryan and Jason Aldean – to Nashville’s Schermerhorn Symphony Center
How to Watch The Real Housewives of New Jersey on Peacock and the Bravo app.
Emilio Estevez is best known for being a member of the Brat Pack, which was a group of prominent actors that frequently appeared together in movies in the 1980s.
Amy Sedaris, a Hobo, Patty Hogg & Jerri Blank (Of Course) Are Here For Your Entertainment Gossip Entertainment / Gossip 2268 Views
Prince Harry and Meghan Markle have met the Queen, according to a new report.
All images are copyrighted.
Peter Facinelli has appeared in films and television shows such as the "Twilight" series, "Can't Hardly Wait," and "Nurse Jackie."
Margot Robbie and Tonya Harding hit it off at the premiere of the "I, Tonya" movie in which Robbie portrays Harding.
All images are copyrighted.
"I've always wanted to write a book about wine, but I never thought I'd be able to pull it off."
A selection of photos from around the world this week:
It's no secret that breastfeeding is one of the best things about having a baby.
He's one of Latin music's biggest stars, and he's not afraid to show it.
In case you missed it, here’s your chance to meet Desiree O.
"You would think we're on the team, but we're down-ass wives."
Check out some of the best memes from this year's MTV Video Music Awards.
LFO singer Devin Lima has undergone surgery to remove a massive benign tumor.
If you’re a fan of reality TV, then you’re probably familiar with the saying, “relationships last forever.”
It’s that time of year again when we catch up with our favourite TV cousins!
It’s that time of year again.
Miley Cyrus stepped in to help a homeless contestant from her team on NBC’s “The Voice.”
Pop star Taylor Swift has released a new song called "Look What You Made Me Do".
Liam Payne Releases Brand New Single, ‘Bedroom Floor’!
Watch a Peek of E!'s New Snapchat Series Face Forward!
Kendall Jenner cheered on her boyfriend, Blake Griffin, at a Clippers game in L.A.
It’s that time of year again.
Boyz II Men bring their super star talent to an intimate stage in Las Vegas.
A 19-year-old man has revealed that he's a fan of his old Hannah Montana wardrobe.
Vanessa Hudgens is the latest celebrity to take on the role of the Bongo Girl.
Happy birthday, Kim!
It’s been a rough year for fans of The Walking Dead.
WWE superstar Nia Jax reflects on her role as a role model for women who find it difficult to embrace who they are in life.
All images are copyrighted.
The Duke and Duchess of Sussex are reportedly spending most of their weekends in the Cotswolds.
What do you do if you’re Justin Bieber?
He’s best known for playing Donald Trump on Saturday Night Live, but could Alec Baldwin ever run for president?
He's one of the most famous people in the world, and now Justin Bieber has revealed he's got a new tattoo!
All photographs  Nikki Reed.
A big swirling bucket of the latest rumors, celebrity news and Hollywood gossip.
It’s official: Billy Kimmel is six months old!
It’s one of those things that you just don’t know what to make of. (Pro-tip: never tell people that you’re fine; an impact from even a slow-moving car can cause injuries that you might not notice right away.
One Direction fans are up in arms!
Ewan McGregor has split from his wife of 22 years, French production designer Eve Mavrakis, according to People.
Pop star Sam Smith opens up about coming out as gay and wearing women's clothes.
John Stamos and Caitlin McHugh are engaged to be married.
Images courtesy of Pathé, BBC Films and Ingenious Media.
The Million Dollar Listing Los Angeles family just got a little bigger. David Parnes welcomed his first child, a girl, with wife Adrian Abnosi on Thursday, April 12.
All images are copyrighted.
Check out Taylor Swift’s new music video forReady For It?
It’s not easy naming twins.
It's been a rough few months for Fox News.
All images are copyrighted.
It's that time of year again.
From Lena Dunham to Coleen Rooney, celebrities are taking to social media to share how they've had their eyebrows microbladed.
Andrew Lincoln is leaving The Walking Dead after eight years as Rick Grimes.
Katy Perry Proves She's the Best Surprise Wedding Guest by Starting Epic Dance Party Honeymoon season kicking off on the right note!
Find out more about TrendolizerTM at get.trendolizer.com
In one of the more sensitive data breaches in recent memory, hackers have broken into a high profile, London-based plastic surgery clinic, and stolen a bevy of photos, including of in-progress genitalia and breast enlargements.
WWE Divas Champion Nikki Bella says she wants to be a Raw Women's Champion.
It's a double dose of cuteness!
Jennifer Lawrence won an Academy Award for her work in Silver Linings Playbook and continued to work with the director on American Hustle and Joy, winning Golden Globes for all three projects as well.
It's been a busy week for Blake Lively.
The Real Housewives of New York City's Tinsley Mortimer and Scott Kluth are no longer together.
It's that time of year again.
All images subject to copyright.
How much is Billy Joel worth?
Leah Remini and Kevin James are one of the funniest couples on TV, and now one of their co-stars has revealed why.
George Clooney's twins got in on Matt Damon and Jimmy Kimmel's faux feud on Monday night.
Scare me once, shame on you.
"Dancing with the Stars" eliminated Nick Lachey on Monday's Halloween episode.
Kourtney Kardashian shuts down speculation she’s pregnant with her fourth child with Scott Disick.
Grey’s Anatomy actress Sara Ramirez has joined the cast of Madam Secretary.
"I was doing a scene where I was on a ladder and I was supposed to be taking books off a shelf and he slapped my ass in front of the crew so hard."
In our series of letters from African journalists, film-maker and columnist Farai Sevenzo looks at the impact Eleven has had on her life.
The stars of This Is Us speak to The Hollywood Reporter about the big reveals in the season one finale and whether viewers should hold out hope for a Jack and Rebecca reunion.
A bride-to-be got an extra special guest when her fiancé got down on one knee and proposed to her.
If you're like most of us, you've probably had your fair share of beard envy.
Alison Brie stunned on the red carpet at the Oscars with a retro Glam Ponytail.
If you’re like most women, you’re searching for ways to fix frizzy hair.
"I'm a little bit less stressed over what to anticipate."
The Keeping Up With the Kardashians star reveals she’s shed 40 pounds since giving birth to daughter True.
Ciara breaks down five of her most iconic moves.
It's one of the biggest sporting events in the world.
It's been a while since we heard from them, but it looks like they're back!
Harry Connick Jr. and Jill Goodacre, pick up this week's issue of PEOPLE on newsstands Friday "I was scared I was going to lose her, absolutely," says Connick Jr., 50, whose mother died of ovarian cancer when he was 13.
It's not every day you get to sit down for an interview with Ellen DeGeneres.
The 988 Lifeline provides 24/7, free and confidential support for people in distress, prevention and crisis resources for you or your loved ones, and best practices for professionals in the United States.
A Bad Moms Christmas is rated PG
The Real Housewives of New Jersey is back!
Bachelor in Paradise star DeMario Jackson is not a fan of Chris Harrison.
How much do you know about your skin?
Justin Bieber and Selena Gomez have reportedly called off their engagement after two years together.
Jeff Lewis’ contract with Bravo may have allegedly expired, but his hit reality show, Flipping Out, isn’t going anywhere, he says.
It's been a long time coming, but it's finally over.
It’s that time of year again.
All images are copyrighted.
Kylie Jenner and Travis Scott have announced the birth of their baby girl.
Buying a handbag can be a bit of a hassle, especially if you’re on a tight budget.
A look back at some of the most memorable moments from the MTV Video Music Awards.
Jessica Alba is already a mama to two girls, Honor, 9, and 6-year-old Haven, and now the actress and businesswoman has taken to Instagram to announce that she and husband Cash Warren will be welcoming a baby boy in a couple of months.
The former child star sat down for separate interviews with Matt Lauer and Megan Kelly, respectively.
Donald Trump won’t be attending this year’s Met Gala.
Jimmy Fallon Blows Up a Pumpkin and TPs The Tonight Show Audience In Halloween Science Experiments
A selection of photos from around the world this week:
First Look at Barbie Blank and Sheldon Souray's Marriage on Wags-l-a-season-3
Chloe Green and Jeremy Meeks put on a very loved up-display as they posed on their first red carpet since welcoming their baby boy.
Matt Damon sell a half-naked Jimmy Kimmel blow-up doll
This Is Us star Justin Hartley married actress Chrishell Stause on October 28, 2017, the ceremony was held at Malibu's Calamigos Ranch on the fourth anniversary of their first date. When This Is Us heartthrob Justin Hartley married actress Chrishell Stause on October 28, 2017, the ceremony was held at Malibu
Becky G will host Telemundo’s third annual Latin American Music Awards (Latin AMAs) alongside Diego Boneta on October 26.
Hugh Jackman teases on Twitter that he might finally wear the classic blue and yellow Wolverine costume from the comics.
Selma Blair and Rachel McAdams have come forward to accuse director James Toback of sexual harassment.
The divorce proceedings are heating up again.
Selma Blair and Rachel McAdams have come forward to accuse director James Toback of sexual harassment.
It’s no secret that Khloé Kardashian and Tristan Thompson have had their ups and downs.
It's almost time for the Bella Twins to return to WWE.
It's that time of year again - time to catch up with some of the biggest names in TV.
She’s best known for playing Megan Fox in the Teenage Mutant Ninja Turtles, but now the actress has opened up about the "low point" of her career in an interview with Cosmopolitan.
All images are copyrighted.
WWE superstar Nikki Bella has been eliminated from "Dancing with the Stars."
If you're a fan of Disney Channel's Halloweentown, you're in for a treat.
"I guess I got to the point where it was really kind of life or death."
On Thursday’s episode of Will & Grace, Karen (Megan Mullally) came out as gay in a reference to the recent sexual harassment allegations against film producer Harvey Weinstein.
As 2017 draws to a close, we’re taking a look back at some of the biggest and most shocking celebrity splits of the year.
New Divas star Nia Jax is prepping for her first Gauntlet match and makes the mistake of asking Maryse the wrong question.
It's that time of year again - Christmas Day.
Flare jeans are back, but this time with a twist.
Pop star Cardi B is engaged to her long-term boyfriend, rapper Offset.
Kim Kardashian West and Jonathan Cheban dressed up as Cher and Bono at a Halloween party in Los Angeles on Friday, October 27.
Cardi B has said "yes" to her boyfriend Offset's marriage proposal.
What does self-care look like when it is not all-or-nothing?
It’s not every day you get to share the stage with the King of Pop’s daughter and son-in-law.
She’s back!
She was suspended for 10 days last year over comments she made on a podcast about the network's CO vaccine policy and former President Barack Obama's racial identity.
What do Dustin, Eleven and Gaten have in common?
All images are copyrighted.
Jimmy Kimmel explains why he waited until Monday to address the Harvey Weinstein scandal.
Corey Feldman says he plans to release the names of all the people he claims sexually abused him as a child.
It’s all change at SUR in the new trailer for Vanderpump Rules.
When it comes to styling her hair, Game of Thrones actress Maisie King knows how to do it right.
Selena Gomez and The Weeknd have called it quits.
Demi Lovato gives her fans serious Princess Protection Program vibes when she's got all gussied up to be a “prize model.”
In her first interview since announcing she’s pregnant with her first child, hip-hop star Cardi B reflects on life as a new mother.
It's the end of an era.
It’s that time of year again!
If you’ve ever wondered what happens when you don’t wash your hands after going to the bathroom, then you’ve come to the right place.
Justin Bieber and Selena Gomez's break becoming a permanent breakup may be sinking in for the Biebs, or so People's new report suggests. The reality of Justin Bieber and Selena Gomez's break becoming a permanent breakup may be sinking in for the Biebs, or so People's new report suggests
Taylor Swift arrives at the American Music Awards at Microsoft Theater in Los Angeles.
A selection of photos from around the world this week:
A selection of photos from around the world this week:
Take a look at who's in the running to be this year's Christmas Number One.
Take a look at who's in the running to be this year's Christmas Number One.
All images are copyrighted.
The controversy surrounding Kevin Spacey continues to grow.
It's been a busy few weeks for Selena Gomez and The Weeknd, who have been spotted out together a number of times over the past few weeks.
Dry, itchy skin can flake, crack, and even bleed when the humidity drops.
Former LFO singer Rich Cronin has died at the age of 35.
Check out the lyrics to The Weeknd's new single, My Dear Melancholy, below.
All images subject to copyright.
Teresa Giudice calls Sofia Vergara a "bitch" during a panel discussion about her best and worst celeb encounters.
In a sneak peek clip from Sunday's episode of Keeping Up With the Kardashians, the 34-year-old reality star gets emotional about trying to move on from the mother of his three children with other ladies.
Henry the hippopotamus has died.
Take a look at who's in the running to be this year's Christmas Number One.
Production has been suspended on the sixth and final season of Netflix’s House of Cards amid the Kevin Spacey sexual assault scandal.
Find out more about TrendolizerTM at get.trendolizer.com
Ever since Justin Bieber and Selena Gomez broke up in 2014, we've been glued to their every move.
It’s been a long time coming.
Selena Gomez is Billboard’s 2017 Woman of the Year.
The feud between NeNe Leakes and Kim Zolciak-Biermann has rumbled on all season on Real Housewives of Atlanta.
In Case You Missed It: The Flash review for “All Doll’d Up”.
As the final quarter of 2017 commences, now’s the time to tune into astrology to help strategize your success, especially as night and day find their way into equal proportions this fall equinox.
All images subject to copyright.
The Real Housewives of Atlanta is back!
It’s almost time to say goodbye to American Horror Story.
Heidi Klum unveiled her latest show-stopping costume at her 18th annual Halloween party in New York City on Tuesday night when she transformed herself into the werewolf from Michael Jackson's "Thriller" video.
If you’ve ever wanted to know what it’s like to be Eleven, you’ve come to the right place.
It's that time of year again.
It's all good.
In the wake of allegations of sexual harassment against Dustin Hoffman, a former production assistant has come forward to share her story.
Amber Portwood is pregnant with her first child with boyfriend Andrew Glennon.
As hundreds of women have come forward in recent weeks with allegations of sexual misconduct at the hands of producer Harvey Weinstein, director James Toback and numerous other powerful men, Natasha Henstridge decided she would no longer remain silent.
Kristen Bell and Dave Grohl perform a duet on Jimmy Kimmel Live!
All images subject to copyright.
Fast & Furious star Dewayne "The Rock" Johnson has announced that he's going to retire from acting at the end of this year.
Selena Quintanilla was one of the most celebrated Mexican-American entertainers of the late 20th century.
It's almost wedding season for Meghan McCain.
The new season of Arrow will see Oliver Queen ( Stephen Amell) locked up in a maximum security prison.
All images are copyrighted.
All images are copyrighted.
Remember when Justin Bieber and Selena Gomez lied to us?
The latest images from the new Teenage Mutant Ninja Turtles series have been released.
Rosario, Karen’s maid of eight seasons, has died.
She won an Oscar for her role in The Hours, but Nicole Kidman says winning two Emmys was more meaningful to her than winning an Oscar.
A selection of photos from around the world this week:
Amanda Knox penned a tribute Wednesday to her former roommate, who she was accused of killing in a protracted legal case where she was convicted, acquitted, and then convicted again before she was finally acquitted.
The SAG-AFTRA union has launched an investigation into safety on the set of Riverdale, following an incident involving one of the show’s stars.
In our series of letters from African-American journalists, The Real Housewives of Atlanta's Shereé Whitfield answers some of your questions.
The Real Housewives of Atlanta's Cynthia Bailey says she's "almost having a boyfriend."
It’s one of the biggest celebrity romances of the year.
All pictures are copyrighted.
Jason Momoa and Lisa Bonet are officially married!
Corey Feldman has named one of his alleged abusers.
What do you do if you're one of the world's most famous pitchers?
It’s time for the 2017 American Music Awards!
Mila Kunis shows off her new dog tag on Instagram.
Justin Bieber and Selena Gomez's break becoming a permanent breakup may be sinking in for the Biebs, or so People's new report suggests. The reality of Justin Bieber and Selena Gomez's break becoming a permanent breakup may be sinking in for the Biebs, or so People's new report suggests
There’s a reason why mini-skirts are so popular.
It's been a busy week for the Kardashian-Jenners.
The X-Files is coming back for a limited 11th season starring Gillian Anderson and David Duchovny as Agents Mulder and Scully.
It's been a long time coming.
"I got hot": Wendy Williams explains why she fainted live on air earlier this week.
Selena Quintanilla was one of the most celebrated Mexican-American entertainers of the late 20th century.
Houston Astros star Carlos Correa got down on one knee and proposed to his girlfriend, Miss Texas USA Daniella Rodriguez.
Actor Alec Baldwin discusses how he has treated women poorly in the past.
She became known as the “six-pack mom” for her ability to keep her toned abs during her two pregnancies.
A look back at the 10 best and 10 worst of the fall TV season.
Tennis star Caroline Wozniacki is engaged to Spurs player David Lee.
Take a look at who's in the running to be this year's Christmas Number One.
Scott Disick and Kourtney Kardashian have enjoyed a relatively friendly relationship for the sake of their kids. Things get tense between the former couple in a teaser for an upcoming episode of KUWTK Scott Disick fumes at "fake" Kourtney Kardashian after she refuses to invite ex to family events Since splitting
Mom of 8 reveals how she manages a family of 10 and shows off Giant Meals that made her go viral
The Real Housewives of Atlanta is back!
A selection of photos from around the world this week:
Check out Beyonce and Jay-Z’s Halloween costumes!
“I got out of there unscathed.”
Chris Pratt returned to Instagram for the first time since he and ex-wife Anna Faris announced their separation in August after eight years together.
Jimmy Fallon’s mother, Gloria, has died at the age of 68.
Emilia Clarke, who plays Daenerys Targaryen on Game of Thrones, has shared a photo of herself with former co-star Jason Momoa on Instagram.
The youngest member of the Kardashian-Jenner family has hit back at reports that she is expecting her first child.
Claire and Jamie return to Scotland in the latest episode of “Outlander.”
Are you the type of person who loves to change up your look every now and then?
Max is an obnoxious cutie Reply Parent Thread Link don't insult Max like this sis.
This site uses cookies.
NeNe Leakes gives her take on some of the other things the RHOA ladies have said about her so far this season, below.
If you’ve ever dreamed of owning a farmhouse-style home, then you’ve come to the right place.
The final season of “House of Cards” has been released and it’s pretty shocking.
If you’re a fan of The Bachelor or The Bachelorette, you may have noticed that one of the stars is no longer on the show.
Kate Upton and Justin Verlander Are Married!
The former Bachelorette star says his relationship with Modern Family actress Sarah Hyland has been “really nice and normal.”
It's that time of year again - babysitters!
"Life today at this very moment couldn't be better."
Katharine McPhee and David Foster are engaged.
Are NBA star Chandler Parsons and Chloe Bennet Dating? Are NBA star Chandler Parsons and Chloe Bennet Dating; Find out the Relationship Status of the Pair Another person added a long list of girlfriends of NBA star player Chandler Parsons.
He’s best known for his role as Aaron Samuels in Mean Girls and Jaymes Vaughan is a TV host who was once on The Amazing Race.
"There was an offense and it is something for which Dustin apologized, and Meryl accepted that."
Wonder Woman star Gal Gadot has revealed how her baby daughter had a secret role in the film.
It’s hard to know when a relationship is over.
She’s not afraid to show off her body.
Adam Levine and Behati Prinsloo are expecting their second child.
It was the first Latin night of the season.
It’s almost time for the release of Taylor Swift’s new album, reputation.
Actress Kristina Cohen has accused Gossip Girl actor Ed Westwick of rape.
All images are copyrighted.
Is she or isn’t she?
Della Reese, known for hits like “Don’t You Know?” and “And That Reminds Me,” has died at the age of 86.
The 300th episode of Grey’s Anatomy will pay tribute to three of the show’s original doctors, but who will make an appearance?
The Duchess of Cambridge looked lovely in lace as she showed off her growing baby bump on Tuesday at the Anna Freud Centre Gala Dinner.
Twitter is doubling its character limit from 140 to 280, with the change set to roll out globally in the next few days.
It's been an extraordinary year for the OUT100.
If you’ve seen The Room, you’ve probably seen Tommy Wiseau, Greg Sestero, and the infamous billboard.
Whether you’re looking to kill a few hours after Christmas dinner or just trying to escape your weird cousins who visiting, we’ve rounded up all the biggest new releases in cinemas and streaming.
The Wolf of Wall Street star Margot Robbie says nudity is "shameful" for the sake of nudity.
Police in Los Angeles say they are no longer investigating a sexual assault report filed by actor Corey Feldman.
It's one of the most anticipated albums of the year.
It’s almost time for the 300th episode of Grey’s Anatomy.
What do you do if you fail your driving test five times?
Drake is teaming up with Netflix to revive Top Boy, the British crime drama that aired on Channel 4 in the U.K.
A big swirling bucket of the latest rumors, celebrity news and Hollywood gossip.
Reviews The Mindy Project A "Danny And Mindy" Episode 22
If you’ve ever tuned in to The Rachael Ray Show, you might have heard about one of the show’s most unlikely couples.
Justin Bieber and Selena Gomez have reportedly called off their engagement after two years together.
If you’ve ever wondered what Meghan Markle’s go-to beauty products are, you’ve come to the right place!
When is the right time to get your child’s ears pierced?
All images subject to copyright.
Country Living has named Jessica Leigh Mattern as its new editor-in-chief.
All images are copyrighted.
As Beyoncé prepares for her world tour, we take a look at some of the lesser-known facts about the superstar.
A second actress has come forward to accuse Steven Seagal of sexual misconduct.
Christopher Plummer talks about replacing Kevin Spacey in Ridley Scott’s All the Money in the World, his surprise Golden Globe nomination and why he’s not pushing up the daisies just yet. Not only did Christopher Plummer replace Kevin Spacey in Ridley Scott’s finished film All the Money in the World, he
Eddie Montgomery joins Rascal Flatts and Dierks Bentley on stage to pay tribute to Montgomery Gentry's Troy Gentry, who was killed in a helicopter crash earlier this month.
It’s not easy being an actress.
It’s been a year in the making.
Lady Antebellum's Hillary Scott and husband Chris Tyrrell welcomed twin daughters to the world on Monday.
"I was at a restaurant last night and this stranger comes up to me and he says, 'Hey, I just read your kids walked in on you having sex.' I don't even know that she told that story!"
"Stranger Things" stars Gaten Matarazzo, Noah Schnapp, Finn Wolfhard and Caleb McLaughlin perform a Motown medley on "The Late Late Show With James Corden."
A selection of photos from around the world this week:
Cult horror series Cult will return for a second season in the autumn, its creator has confirmed.
Three more women have come forward to accuse Jeremy Piven of sexual misconduct.
Take a look at who's in the running to be this year's Christmas Number One.
She's one of the most famous people in the world, but it turns out she's not the only one.
The New York premiere of Louis C.K.’s new film, I Love You, Daddy, has been cancelled following allegations of sexual misconduct.
Taylor Swift, 27, performed a new song from her upcoming album in a special performance that aired during "Scandal" on ABC.
Do you care who it is?
She may be the queen of the pout, but according to this photographic evidence, Victoria Beckhamis also the queen of the heel.
It's that time of year again... back to school! Less basic than the standard, this look involves a low pony and two strands of hair that criss-cross in the back to give you an easy-yet-sophisticated look.
Shakira has postponed more dates of her El Dorado World Tour due to her strained vocal cords.
For fans, Star Wars: The Last Jedi was the culmination of a decade of anticipation.
It's official: April the giraffe is pregnant again.
Bradley Cooper and Irina Shayk are reportedly expecting their second child!
It's a girl!
Taylor Swift's new album "Reputation" references her long-running feud with Kanye West.
The next three episodes of This Is Us will focus on The Big Three’s teen years.
All images are copyrighted.
Can you believe it?
As the 2016 Olympic Games in Rio de Janeiro come to a close, it is a fitting time to reflect on the shocking sexual abuse scandal that has rocked the sport of gymnastics.
Actress Ellen Page has come forward with allegations of sexual abuse against Brett Ratner.
This week on The Arrangement, it’s all about horny!
It’s a girl!
Cult horror series Cult will return for a second season in the autumn, its creator has confirmed.
Kandi Burruss, LaTocha Scott, Tiny Harris, and Tamika Scott are back!
If you’re a cat-eye enthusiast, you’re in for a treat.
Country singer Aaron Carter has revealed he's shed more than 100 pounds.
Take a look at who's in the running to be this year's Christmas Number One.
It's one of the biggest feuds in music right now.
"Pitch Perfect" star Rebel Wilson says she was sexually harassed by a "male star in a position of power."
In case you missed it, here's everything you need to know about Kate Middleton's killer black dress and clutch bag.
All images are copyrighted.
Check out the full list of winners below.
Kara (Melissa Benoist) takes Alex (Teddy Sears) back to their childhood home in the latest episode of Supergirl.
Blac Chyna threw her daughter a mermaid-themed birthday party, complete with a live mermaids swimming around the pool! The 29-year-old model threw her little girl a mermaid-themed birthday bash, complete with a live mermaids swimming around the pool!
The sudden swap and race against time is a welcome challenge for Plummer, he said, but the veteran actor also feels “awfully sad” for Spacey, given the snowballing sexual-misconduct allegations against the House of Cards star.
She’s the former member of one of the biggest girl groups of all time.
It’s hard to believe it’s been 10 years.
Taylor Swift's 1989 World Tour is coming to a close this weekend in Tampa, Florida.
A selection of photos from around the world this week:
Amy Adams is an American actress best known for her roles in films such as Junebug, Enchanted and Julie & Julia.
Nikki Bella says she's "pretty lame" in the dating game after splitting from John Cena.
One Direction’s Liam Payne has revealed some Christmas plans for his first Christmas with his son Bear.
The actor turned 46 on Wednesday and received a special birthday message from his and Fergie's 5-year-old son, Axl.
Watch BBC Sport highlights as Wales beat England in the Six Nations.
The second season of The Actual Housewives of Dallas came to an end on Monday night, and the ladies of Dallas did not disappoint.
How do you reach out to your grandchildren?
Take a look at who's in the running to be this year's Christmas Number One.
Comedian and actress Amy Schumer has a net worth of $45 million.
All images subject to copyright.
Taylor Swift performed on The Tonight Show Starring Jimmy Fallon on Monday, and the video is emotional on its own.
All pictures subject to copyright.
Shakira has postponed her El Dorado World Tour until 2018 after suffering a hemorrhage on her right vocal cord.
If you’re a fan of superhero movies, you might want to check out The Terrible Ten.
It’s one of the most talked-about inventions of the year.
Actress Amber Heard says she doesn’t identify as bisexual.
NFL star Marquise Goodwin and his wife lost their baby boy on Sunday.
Eve Jeffers Cooper is the new co-host of CBS’ daytime talk show “The Talk.”
Gene Simmons believes that women can either "wear a potato sack" or use their sexuality instead to gain power in the world.
It’s all about the music!
It's that time of year again when we all need a new pair of shoes.
Is Vicki Gunvalson threatening to leave the Real Housewives of Orange County?
She's one of the world's biggest pop stars, and she's also one of the most famous people in the world.
Brie Bella and Nikki Bella are the stars of WWE’s Total Divas.
J Balvin Debuts Neon Yellow Hair: "I'm Back!"
Actress and activist Rose McGowan has been charged with cocaine possession.
It's almost Christmas! Big curls and sexy waves Ditch the bobby pins and hair ties and bring your whole look together with sleek, voluminous curls or sexy waves.
quotes from the book The Help by Kathryn Stockett.
All photographs courtesy Kat Armstrong.
He’s back!
All images subject to copyright.
Selena Gomez and Marshmello performWolves at the 2017 American Music Awards.
Pop star Pink has a theory about how to sing better.
If you've been keeping up with the Kardashians lately, you'll have heard a lot about Kris Jenner.
It's not every day you get to meet a Star Wars actor in person.
"I have never felt more emasculated."
Larry English is an American former professional football player who has a net worth of $8 million.
It's that time of year again.
Scott Disick and Sofia Richie's PDA is heating up!
Taylor Swift Expert Sought for New Job at Victoria and Albert Museum in England — Find out how to apply!
Justice League feels like a sheepish feature-length retraction of the franchise to date, with plot holes so yawningly vast they have a kind of Grand Canyon-like splendour: part of you wants to hang around to see what they look like at sunset.
"When We're Together" from the new Walt Disney Animation Studios featurette, OLAF's FROZEN.
It's been almost a year since Justin Bieber and Hailey Baldwin announced they were getting married, but it seems like the "Lost in Japan" singer is still thinking about his ex.
Silence equals survival in the first trailer for the supernatural horror film “A Quiet Place,” starring Emily Blunt and John Krasinski.
Lala Kent is best known for being a cast member of the Bravo reality TV series "Vanderpump Rules" (2015–present).
It’s going to be a night to remember.
Cult horror series Cult will return for a second season in the autumn, its creator has confirmed.
It's almost time for the return of Khloé Kardashian's Revenge Body.
The Real Housewives of Beverly Hills is back.
Amazon shoppers say these now-$20 Flats Are Comfy Enough to Wear "Straight Out of the Box"
It’s been a long time coming, but it looks like Bella Hadid and The Weeknd are back together.
Justin Bieber and Selena Gomez have reportedly called off their engagement after two years together.
Photos courtesy of Gayla Thompson
She’s one of those people who will do anything to make you happy.
After months of speculation, the cast and crew of a new TV series have finally been announced.
All images subject to copyright.
A second Transparent cast member has come forward to accuse star Jeffrey Tambor of sexual harassment.
Jennifer Hudson may not have her fairy tale ending with David Otunga after all.
It’s official.
Have you ever been nervous about meeting your daughter’s boyfriend?
Take a look at who's in the running to be this year's Christmas Number One.
Check out Kim Kardashian and Beyonce’s PDA at Serena Williams’ wedding!
The host of this year’s American Music Awards has been announced.
A chronology of key events:
If you're a Kardashian-Jenner fan, then you were disappointed by Kylie Jenner's absence from the family Christmas card, and you may be wondering whether she's already given birth to a child.
Do you love a wedding?
All images are copyrighted.
Banana bread is having a moment, thanks to the coronavirus quarantine.
Actress Anna Camp and actor Skylar Astin attend the 6th Elle Women in Music celebration on May 20 in Hollywood. Actress Anna Camp and actor Skylar Astin attend the 6th Elle Women in Music celebration on May 20 in Hollywood.
Tarek and Christina El Moussa are mourning the loss of a dear friend.
It’s been a busy few weeks for one couple.
Harry Styles, Miguel, Leslie Odom Jr., and Jane Zhang!
One of the stars of Teen Mom 2 celebrated his son’s birthday with help from his costar.
Reality TV star Kendra Wilkinson was forced to cancel two shows in Las Vegas after she was rushed to the hospital with an unknown illness.
In a new interview with Bleacher Report, Verlander looks back at the lowest point of his career just four years ago and admits, "Who knows if I’m even here if it wasn’t for her."
The Backstreet Boys might have found a new member in James Corden - or so he hopes - as the late-night host performed alongside the boy band for a revamped version of their hit single during Tuesday night’s Late Late Show.
It’s not every day you get to poke fun at a former president.
Russell Simmons and Brett Ratner have been accused of teaming up to allegedly sexually harass and assault women, according to a new report in the Los Angeles Times. Russell Simmons and Brett Ratner have been accused of teaming up to allegedly sexually harass and assault women, according to a new report in the Los Angeles Times.
We Should Listen to Palestinians, Not Selena Gomez (Or Other Cele...
It was a night we'll never forget.
Nina Park has shared a photo of her getting ready for a concert by One Direction's Harry Styles.
Selena Gomez returned to the stage at the 2017 American Music Awards on Sunday, November 19, for her first performance since undergoing a kidney transplant earlier this year.
Pop star Pink has fired back at critics who accused her of being unimpressed during Christina Aguilera’s performance at the 2017 American Music Awards.
Linkin Park dedicated their American Music Awards win to Chester Bennington, who died in July at the age of 41.
Beyoncé will star in Disney’s live-action remake of The Lion King.
It's not every day you get to surprise your husband with a toilet.
The Santa Clause, The Santa Clause 3: The Escape Clause and Bright are all coming to Netflix in December.
Married at First Sight star Nate Duhon has filed for divorce from his wife, Sheila Downs, after she accused him of cheating on her.
It's Victoria's Secret time again!
Find out more about TrendolizerTM at get.trendolizer.com
She’d like to see it happen.
Anne Wojcicki is the co-founder and chief executive officer of the personal genetics company 23andMe.
In the end, a piece of dental floss saved the day.
It’s been a turbulent year for the Kardashian-Jenner family.
One of the stars of Nate Parker's Oscar-nominated film The Birth of a Nation has accused the film's director of being unfairly treated.
If you're a fan of Shawn Mendes, you might be wondering why he's not in a relationship...
Bruno Mars’ “24K Magic Live at the Apollo” is set to air on CBS on November 29 at 10 PM EST.
A big swirling bucket of the latest rumors, celebrity news and Hollywood gossip.
If you've ever had a bad time curling your hair, you're not alone.
You may have heard of Contessa: Cook Like A Pro?
They’re famous.
It's almost four years since nude photos of Jennifer Lawrence and other celebrities were leaked online.
Sofia Carson Adds Disney Magic to the Holidays and Shares Her Highlights From 2017 Who better to unveil the Saks Fifth Avenue flagship store’s holiday window display than Sofia Carson?
It's that time of year again.
Marc Anthony and Jennifer Lopez’s ex, Casper Smart, have been spotted hanging out together!
It’s time to move on.
David Cassidy died of a heart attack at the age of 72.
It's official.
In Pink’s new music video for “Beautiful Trauma,” she plays the not-so-perfect, pill-popping ’50s housewife Tatum’s lazy, flask-loving husband.
Eva Marcille is pregnant with her second child, a baby boy, with her boyfriend, Michael Sterling.
It's that time of year again when you're hitting up holiday parties, shopping for presents and trying out new hairstyles.
All images subject to copyright.
A big swirling bucket of the latest rumors, celebrity news and Hollywood gossip.
Two Pixar writers who left the company in the wake of allegations of sexual harassment have spoken out about their departure.
David Cassidy died on Tuesday at the age of 67.
David Cassidy, the teen heartthrob star of the hit "The Partridge Family" who went on to have a long show business career, has died at the age of 67.
Kim Zolciak and her daughter Brielle Biermann are causing quite the stir on social media this week.
All images are copyrighted.
It’s one of the most-talked-about movies of 2017.
All images are copyrighted.
It's that time of year again.
Nikki and Brie Bella Debut WWE Superstar Barbie Dolls at San Diego Comic Con: ''We Decided to Come Together and Just Break Barriers''
It's that time of year again when many of us are trying to find the perfect gift for our loved ones.
Check out some of the best memes from this year's MTV Video Music Awards.
In the spirit of giving, Jennifer Hudson modified her emergency order of protection against ex-fiancé David Otunga to let their son spend Thanksgiving with him.
Paris Hilton and Kathy Hilton threw a beautiful shower for their family member Nicky Hilton Rothschild at their Bel Air mansion... Paris Hilton and Kathy Hilton threw a beautiful shower for their family member Nicky Hilton Rothschild at their Bel Air mansion...
It's been a whirlwind year for the cast of Vanderpump Rules.
If you want to know why Pixar is one of the most successful animation studios in the world, look no further than its latest release, Coco.
Happy birthday, Miley!
Serena Williams and Alexis Ohanian got married last week in a Beauty and the Beast-themed wedding in New Orleans, with a guest list that included Venus Williams, Beyonce, Eva Longoria, Kim Kardashian, and more celebrities and friends.
It's that time of year again. The Macy's Thanksgiving Day Parade is not only a great time to catch celebrities who typically stick to sunny Los Angeles sporting winter coats for the first time since New Year's Eve, but the musical performances can sometimes offer nostalgia alongside holiday cheer.
A birthday date isn't done right unless it involves a private helicopter... said anyone who's ever been on The Bachelor. Wells Adams took girlfriend Sarah Hyland on a helicopter ride for her 27th birthday celebration and it's a overload fans can't handle.
It's not every day you get to spend Thanksgiving with your significant other! A post shared by Gwen Stefani (@gwenstefani) on Nov 24, 2017 at 7:22am PST Click inside to see more photos Gwen shared from her Thanksgiving... Family #sograteful gx #happythanksgiving A
The actress and her business manager boyfriend are no longer together.
When it comes to meeting the Queen, it's not just her Majesty herself you've got to impress.
In the latest episode of POTUS 45, Donald Trump claims he denied TIME Magazine’s offer to be named “The Person of the Year.”
It was a Spice Girls-themed birthday party for Mel B's niece, Tillie Thalia.
The couple spent their Friday after Thanksgiving camping together near Santa Barbara, California. The couple spent their Friday after Thanksgiving camping together near Santa Barbara, California.
When she's not winning Academy Awards, Jennifer Lawrence is just like every other 27-year-old woman in America: she loves to watch endless marathons on Bravo. When she's not winning Academy Awards, Jennifer Lawrence is just like every other 27-year-old woman in America: she loves to watch endless
Kylie Jenner got a short haircut Saturday, opting for a shoulder-length 'do amid rumors that she's pregnant.
We'd like to welcome your comments on this story.
The couple celebrated the impending arrival of their baby boy with a jungle-themed baby shower over the weekend.
Longtime film and television actor Rance Howard, father of director Ron Howard, has died, according to a Saturday tweet from Ron Howard’s verified account.
"Glee" star Naya Rivera has been released from jail after being arrested for allegedly hitting her husband.
It’s been three years since Kristin Cavallari laid her older brother to rest, and not a day goes by that she doesn’t miss his presence.
Find out more about TrendolizerTM at get.trendolizer.com
Chris Martin's ex-wife Gwyneth Paltrow and her new husband Brad Falchuk reportedly spent Thanksgiving with their children.
All images are copyrighted.
All images subject to copyright.
Fergie Rocks Her Performance During the 2017 Miss Universe Pageant's Evening Gown Competition
You can unsubscribe at any time.
It's official.
Prince Harry is engaged to American actress Meghan Markle, Kensington Palace announced in a statement Monday.
Prince Harry and Meghan Markle their first appearance as an engaged couple Prince Harry and Meghan Markle gushed their first appearance as an engaged couple
It’s almost time.
Prince Harry and Meghan Markle will say their "I dos" in just one day, but before they take their trip down the aisle, TODAY took a moment to check in with a few of their special wedding guests. Prince Harry and Meghan Markle will say their "I dos" in just one day,
Prince Harry's bride-to-be has been given special training in the event that she is ever kidnapped.
The average American spends about $2,000 on an engagement ring, according to a TD Bank survey.
Prince Harry and Meghan Markle's royal wedding is finally here!
On this week’s episode of Total Divas, Brie Bella is afraid of Tahoe Tessie.
Love & Hip Hop: Hollywood stars Ray J and Princess Love are expecting their first child together.
This year's Grammy Awards was not just a disappointment for those who hoped to see rap break out from genre-specific categories, but it was also noticeably short on female winners.
The Independent Filmmaker Project (IFP) officially kicked off the awards season with this evening’s 27th Annual Gotham Awards, which took place at Cipriani Wall Street in New York City and were hosted by John Cameron Mitchell.
Check out Shay Mitchell's new travel line, Béis, below.
Is Jill the new Duggar rebel?
A selection of photos from around the world this week:
Daphne Oz is leaving ABC’s daytime foodie talk show “The Chew,” Variety has confirmed.
MTV is bringing back the cast of “Jersey Shore” for a one-off reunion special.
Imagine Dragons have been nominated for two Grammy Awards.
Prince Harry and Meghan Markle’s interview with Mishal Husain on The One Show is here to stay.
Pop stars Selena Gomez and Yolanda Hadid share their secrets about being married.
Prince Harry and Meghan Markle’s engagement was announced on Tuesday, November 28, but did you know she once worked as a briefcase model on Deal or No Deal?
Prince Harry went for a workout at a gym on Tuesday, November 28, just one day after announcing his engagement to Meghan Markle.
Katherine Heigl will replace Meghan Markle on USA's long-running legal dramedy Suits when production begins on Season 8 this April in Toronto.
The feud between Teresa Giudice and Danielle Staub is finally coming to an end.
Jennifer Lawrence has revealed that bad reviews of her film mother! Hurt My Relationship With Darren Aronofsky Jennifer Lawrence hinted that bad reviews of mother!
Johnny Lopez, the youngest son of late Mexican singer Jenni Rivera, addressed rumors surrounding his sexual orientation in a video he posted to Instagram today.
Fredrik Eklund is a Swedish born New York City real estate broker and novelist who has a net worth of $40 million.
It’s that time of year again.
All images are copyrighted.
NBC News says it has fired longtime Today host Matt Lauer following a complaint about "inappropriate sexual behavior in the workplace."
"Oprah's Things," says Gayle King.
Cult horror series Cult will return for a second season in the autumn, its creator has confirmed.
It’s not every day you get to play a game with a Star Wars star.
Bryan Cranston, Mila Kunis, Ashton Kutcher, U2's Bono and Kristen Bell have joined Jimmy Kimmel to sing a version of U2's "Ordinary Love."
Amber Portwood is not interested in Matt Baier’s new life, a source exclusively tells Us Weekly.
Matt Lauer was fired from NBC's "Today" show after a woman came forward to complain that he was sexually inappropriate with her.
It’s no secret that Jay-Z and Beyonce have had their share of ups and downs over the years.
Drive-Away Dolls stars Margaret Qualley and Beanie Feldstein.
William Shatner unblocks Jason Isaacs on Twitter.
As the co-host of NBC’s “Today,” Matt Lauer once gave a colleague a sex toy as a present.
It’s that time of year again.
Here is the agenda for the Adair County Fiscal Court meeting.
A selection of photos from around the world this week:
The man who inspired the ice bucket challenge has died.
A selection of photos from around the world this week:
"The Late Show with Stephen Colbert" and "Jimmy Kimmel Live!"
Take a look at who's in the running to be this year's Christmas Number One.
Jenna Bush Hager made an emotional return to the Today show on Thursday, November 30, after longtime anchor Matt Lauer was fired amid allegations of sexual harassment the day before.
It's not every day you get to write a letter to Father Christmas.
Jenny Lumet, the granddaughter of film director Sidney Lumet, has written an open letter to Russell Simmons in response to sexual assault allegations against the hip-hop mogul.
In Case You Missed It: A daily guide to the most interesting celebrity relationships.
Jennifer Lopez is one of the world's most iconic entertainers.
The second half of Law & Order: SVU will include a familiar face stopping by the Special Victims Unit.
Britney Spears and fiancé Jamie Asghari are expecting their first child together.
Justin Bieber and Selena Gomez have reportedly called off their engagement after two years together.
A selection of photos from around the world this week:
Jennifer Aniston is best known for her role as Rachel Green in the hit sitcom Friends.
Ed Sheeran has shared a new song called ‘How Would You Feel (Paean)’.
The Keeping Up with the Kardashians star revealed she wore a total of nine Yeezy outfits on Tuesday.
It’s that time of year again!
Friends of The Only Way Is Essex star Stephanie Pratt have told Metro.co.uk that she is ‘very upset’ and ‘not talking to any friends’.
It’s been quite a year for Selena Gomez - from her new music to executive producing a hit Netflix series, to her health struggles and continued Instagram fame - and Billboard honored her with “Woman of the Year” award at the 2017 Billboard Women in Music event.
It’s been quite a year for Selena Gomez - from her new music to executive producing a hit Netflix series, to her health struggles and continued Instagram fame - and Billboard honored her with “Woman of the Year” award at the 2017 Billboard Women in Music event.
Kaley Cuoco and Karl Cook are engaged.
It's been a busy week for a Texan.
As thousands of people continue to be stranded in Bali due to a volcanic eruption, one young actress has found a way to make up for lost time.
After weeks of narrowing down her suitors from 31 men, the 32-year-old trial attorney from Dallas chose the 37-year-old Colombian chiropractor living in Miami. After weeks of narrowing down her suitors from 31 men, the 32-year-old trial attorney from Dallas chose the 37-year-old Colombian chiropractor living in
From hosting state dinners to reading to children at the White House, Melania Trump has always been a style icon.
On Monday's episode of The Exes, Exes star Gina Rodriguez revealed that her character, Kelly Unglert, had a fling with her co-star, Josh Lombard.
It's that time of year again.
Travis Scott and Rihanna have confirmed they are dating.
It's been almost a month since the royal wedding, and I'm still not sure what to make of it.
Mauricio Umansky is a Mexican real estate developer and reality television personality who has a net worth of $100 million.
It's not every day you get to party with Kim Kardashian, Kanye West, Kris Jenner and Shay Mitchell.
It's been a pretty eventful year for Selena Gomez.
Blake Shelton has been named the “Sexiest Man Alive” by People Magazine, and now one of his fellow coaches on The Voice is following in his footsteps.
Take a look at who's in the running to be this year's Christmas Number One.
Geraldo Rivera has written an apology to Bette Midler after the singer brought up again a previous accusation that the journalist groped her in the 1970s.
The actor who plays Marvel’s Agents of SHIELD director Phil Coulson tells The Hollywood Reporter that his character may still be alive despite being killed off in Friday’s season five finale.
From the red carpet to the stage, there were plenty of things going on behind the scenes at Billboard’s Women in Music 2017 event.
All photographs courtesy of Harper's BAZAAR.
All images are copyrighted.
All images are copyrighted.
The best shampoos for curly hair control while they keep your curls soft and bouncy.
She's one of the world's most loved performers and Taylor Swift brought all her style and sass to Capital's Jingle Bell Ball with Coca Cola as she opened second night of the UK's biggest Christmas party.
All images subject to copyright.
All images are copyrighted.
Britney Spears and Sam Asghari are still smitten.
Cecily Strong, Kate McKinnon, Aidy Bryant, Leslie Jones, and Melissa Villaseor perform a song about sexual harassment on Saturday Night Live.
Long Island Medium star Larry Caputo and his estranged wife, medium Theresa Caputo, come face-to-face for the first time since announcing their separation last year.
My True Crime Story airs Tuesdays at 10/9c on truTV.
BBC Sport takes a look at some of the key stories of the week.
The full Los Angeles Film Critics Association winners list is below.
Mila Kunis and Ashton Kutcher hit the red carpet as a couple at last! The pair, who married in 2015 and have two kids, attended the star-studded 2018 Breakthrough Prize Awards ceremony on Sunday and walked the red carpet together for the very first time since they were co-stars on "That '70s
"Life today at this very moment couldn't be better."
It's that time of year again.
It’s official: Taylor Swift is back on the cover of British Vogue.
A new promo for the 2018 Oscars features the chilling moment from last year’s broadcast when Warren Beatty and Faye Dunaway mistakenly announced “La La Land” as the best picture winner.
All images are copyrighted.
A portrait of the cast of Straight White Men by Broadway.com resident artist Justin "Squigs" Robertson.
A selection of photos from around the world this week:
As Beyoncé prepares for her world tour, we take a look at some of the lesser-known facts about the superstar.
Prince Harry has asked Prince William to be his best man at his wedding to Meghan Markle.
It’s been a year since Vanderpump Rules’ Scheana Marie and Robert Parks-Valletta broke up but the reality star says she has no interest in reuniting with the former couple.
If you’re a fan of Vanderpump Rules, you’re in for a treat.
A judge has ruled Meek Mill should remain behind bars while appealing a prison sentence for violating probation, saying the rapper's drug use, arrests and other issues while under supervision merited the jail time.
It’s all about the leaks.
What do you get if you add a second child to your family?
Bryan Singer has been fired from the movie Bohemian Rhapsody, 20th Century Fox has told The Hollywood Reporter.
Liza Weil and Charlie Weber Pack on the PDA at Jennifer Klein's Annual Holiday Bash
A selection of photos from around the world this week:
The best hair extensions for thin hair? Discover the various types of hair extension methods and learn about the best type of hair extension for thin hair: Tape in hair extensions are a relatively newer technique and the BEST for women with thin or fine hair.
The Crazy Ex-Girlfriend star tells ET how she kept a straight face while singing "First Penis I Saw" on set.
Chris Pratt joined country singer Chris Stapleton on "Jimmy Kimmel Live" on Monday night for an almost pitch-perfect rendition of the "Dirty Dancing" theme, "(I've Had) the Time of my Life."
This week's episode of Total Divas was all about Lana and Rusev's Bulgarian wedding.
John Mayer is on the mend following an emergency appendectomy, his representative confirms to CNN.
This week on Total Divas, we get another glimpse into Natalya's relationship with her troubled dad, Jim Neidhart.
All images subject to copyright.
WWE.com caught up with Brie Bella to discuss her WrestleMania 32 moment, her future in and out of the ring, and the current state of women’s wrestling in WWE.
Even with a serial rapist and cold-blooded killer like William "The Beast" Lewis on Law & Order: SVU.
"Having a gestational carrier is definitely different, but anyone who says or thinks it’s the easy way out is completely wrong."
Basketball legend Michael Jordan has put his Los Angeles home up for sale for just under $3m.
A selection of photos from around the world this week:
"Game of Thrones" and "Wonder Woman" ruled Twitter in 2017.
The "Guardians of the Galaxy" star has filed for divorce from her husband, actor Chris Pratt.
If you’ve ever wondered what it’s like to be a member of the British royal family, you’ve come to the right place.
Linkin Park singer Chester Bennington died from hanging, an autopsy has found.
If you're looking for the best gifts under $100, we've scoured the market for top-rated products, revisited our own extensive testing archives, and meticulously curated a selection of exceptional gifts under $100.
Kaepernick received the Muhammad Ali Legacy Award at the 2017 Sportsperson of the Year Awards Show in New York.
"Treating another human being with respect isn't complicated, but it seems a bit confusing for a lot of men out there, so I wrote a book."
All images are copyrighted.
All pictures subject to copyright.
How close are we to some of the tech in “Black Mirror”?
Robin Thicke surprised his pregnant girlfriend April Love Geary with a romantic stay at The Beverly Hilton hotel on her birthday.
The Duchess of Cambridge stepped out today for a holiday party, which she's hosting for military families with Prince William at Kensington Palace, wearing the perfect plaid skirt for the occasion.
In an exclusive interview with The Hollywood Reporter, the talk show queen reflects on her new friendship with The Hunger Games star Jennifer Lawrence.
She is a superstar athlete who does everything with one goal in mind: winning.
John Travolta’s Gotti biopic has been sold back to its producers.
A selection of photos from around the world this week:
The Glee star tells The Hollywood Reporter what she took with her when she was forced to leave her home amid the wildfires ravaging Southern California.
All pictures are copyrighted.
Barbie Blank Confronted WAGS Star Sasha Gates For The Stealing Allegation On Nicole Williams’ Bachelorette Party.
Paris Hilton, Lea Michele and Lionel Richie are among the celebrities who have been forced to flee their homes as wildfires rage across Southern California.
Prince Harry’s fiancée Meghan Markle is still in Los Angeles, 5,400 miles away from her prince charming.
In this week's episode of Game of Thrones, Betty Draper (Helena Bonham Carter) takes on the role of Serpent in a production of Shakespeare's A Midsummer Night's Dream, just like her character in last week's episode.
It’s the end of an era.
What do your friends think about your new boyfriend?
Demi Lovato says she’s “very disappointed in your hypocrisy and disrespect toward the women on your cover.”
Pop stars Camila Cabello, Nick Jonas and Sugarland have been added to Dick Clark's New Year's Rockin' Eve with Ryan Seacrest 2018.
Fergie has opened up about her struggles with drug and alcohol abuse.
Check out Kristen Wiig’s botched rendition of Hallelujah on The Late Late Show with James Corden.
We Should Listen to Palestinians, Not Selena Gomez (Or Other Cele...
Jean Grey is back.
The film industry’s governing body has issued new guidelines on how to deal with sexual misconduct allegations.
In the second season of Netflix’s hit period drama, Princess Margaret finds a new love in photographer Antony Armstrong-Jones, better known as Lord Snowdon.
The Teen Mom 2 star has been released from jail after he was arrested for violating his probation.
The Keeping Up with the Kardashians star says she’s happy with her boyfriend, Scott Disick.
A full list of nominees for the 89th Academy Awards.
It’s almost time for Pitch Perfect 3.
Finding the right styling products can be a challenge, but once you find what works best for your curls, coils or waves you’re golden.
As hundreds of women have come forward in recent weeks with allegations of sexual misconduct at the hands of producer Harvey Weinstein, director James Toback and numerous other powerful men, Natasha Henstridge decided she would no longer remain silent.
Ultra Violet is Pantone’s 2017 Color of the Year.
All images are copyrighted.
All images subject to copyright.
"Dead Artists Are Better" is one of the most common phrases used to describe artists who have died.
In her annual Christmas address, the Queen appears to have paid tribute to the hit Netflix series The Crown.
All images are copyrighted.
It's not every day you get to deliver an emotional acceptance speech on stage.
A big swirling bucket of the latest rumors, celebrity news and Hollywood gossip.
Jennifer Lopez will end her record-breaking Las Vegas residency at The AXIS at Planet Hollywood Resort & Casino in 2018.
The Keeping Up With the Kardashians star has revealed her massive gold Christmas tree, which was designed by celebrity floral designer Laura Leatham.
Eminem tackles white privilege and racial profiling on the explosive new song “Untouchable,” a track from his upcoming album Revival.
All pictures subject to copyright.
On this week’s episode of Total Divas, the Bellas go to a race track to watch the horsies, and Rusev adopts a pig.
A selection of photos from around the world this week:
It's been a year and a half since Nicole Kidman and Alexander Skarsgard first appeared on our TV screens as Lies matriarchs Celeste and Jane.
Check out Nicki Minaj’s futuristic take on the Barbie look in her latest music video.
It's been a busy few weeks for the cast and crew of Star Wars: The Final Jedi.
It’s back.
It's that time of year again.
It looks like Bella Hadid and The Weeknd are back together!
If you’ve ever wanted to look like Leonardo DiCaprio, you’ve come to the right place.
The death of US rapper Lil Peep has been ruled an accident.
WWE superstar Nia Jax reflects on her role as a role model for women who find it difficult to embrace who they are in life.
All images are copyrighted.
Jennifer Lopez’s boyfriend, Alex Rodriguez, says that he likes to give his girlfriend, Jennifer Lopez, gifts that are “heartfelt.”
It’s no secret that Armie Hammer and Benicio del Toro have a thing for one another.
Taylor Swift and Joe Alwyn news:Looked couple rendezvous after Jingle Ball concert Taylor Swift and her boyfriend Joe Alwyn were spotted walking hand-in-hand in New York City after the singer performed at the Jingle Ball Concert.
Dream Kardashian has made her KarJenner Christmas card debut! The 13-month-old daughter of Rob Kardashian and his ex-fiancé Blac Chyna stole the show in the latest image to be shared from the 2017 card shoot — which Kim Kardashian West, Kourtney Kardashian, and momager Kris
The life of Della Reese was remembered during a memorial service on Saturday.
After tweeting that snow in Atlanta might keep him from making the “Star Wars: The Last Jedi” premiere in Los Angeles, actor John Boyega made it to the red carpet Saturday.
Supermodel Adriana Lima says she won't take her clothes off anymore for "an empty cause."
A former contestant on The Voice has been accused of rape.
Selena Gomez and Justin Bieber are taking a break from each other, but is it because of her mother's disapproval?
Ellen DeGeneres and Portia de Rossi are now among those affected by the devastating Southern California wildfires.
What do you think?
The Hollywood Foreign Press Association announced the nominees for the 75th annual awards show on Monday, December 11.
Four women have come forward to accuse celebrity chef Mario Batali of sexual harassment.
Check out some of the best memes from this year's MTV Video Music Awards.
It’s back.
The Television Academy should look at Thursday’s Golden Globe nominations and think about the opportunities they present - for the Emmys.
In case you missed it, here’s a round-up of the best and worst of The Walking Dead this season.
This week on Total Divas, the Divas are heading to Mexico for Nikki Bella’s engagement party.
Rachel Brosnahan on her Golden Globes nod, and the ‘vats of coffee’ required for the rapidfire dialogue of ‘The Marvelous Mrs.
"I see firsthand how that’s changed for Jennifer, and how she’s found joy in sharing with others."
In Sunday’s episode of The Walking Dead, Rick Grimes (Andrew Lincoln) was bitten by a zombie and killed.
On Monday night's episode of Total Divas, Nattie and Lana went head-to-head over Lana's pregnancy and Nicole's engagement.
Nick Jonas Said a "Really Tragic" Performance at the ACMs Sent Him to Therapy
Ever since Meghan Markle became engaged to Prince Harry in November, pictures from her earlier years...
One of Princess Diana's most iconic outfits is going up for auction.
As Vanderpump Rules returns for its seventh season, we take a look back at the show’s most villainous moments.
A Tennessee boy's anti-bullying video that went viral over the weekend has sparked a national conversation about bullying.
All images are copyrighted.
It’s been a busy week in the world of reality TV.
Ben Affleck and Matt Damon may not have had the chance to spend Thanksgiving together this year, but there is still a chance that they may get to see each other for Christmas.
It’s that time of year again, when the nominations for the Golden Globes are announced.
All images subject to copyright.
Scheana Marie and Robert Parks-Valletta were planning to spend the holiday season together but unfortunately, the "Vanderpump Rules" star may be forced to make do without her ex-boyfriend.
All images are copyrighted.
It’s a new year and a new baby!
A selection of photos from around the world this week:
Marvel’s Runaways Reunion Season 1 Episode 1 Editor’s Rating 4 stars * * * Previous Next   Previous Episode Next Episode  Photo: Paul Sarkis/Hulu
Harry Styles kisses James Corden during a Christmas-themed Carpool Karaoke segment on The Late Late Show on Monday, December 11.
The mother of a black boy who was bullied at school has been accused of racism.
"Who hurt you?"
A selection of photos from around the world this week:
The dramatic ponytail is back!
If you thought Netflix's "A Christmas Prince" was awesomely bad, get ready for an awesomely worse sequel.
All images are copyrighted.
Larry English is an American former professional football player who has a net worth of $8 million.
DropCatch DropCatch DropCatch DropCatch DropCatch DropCatch DropCatch DropCatch DropCatch DropCatch DropCatch DropCatch DropCatch DropCatch DropCatch DropCatch DropCatch DropCatch DropCatch DropCatch DropCatch DropCatch DropCatch DropCatch DropCatch DropCatch DropCatch DropCatch DropCatch DropCatch DropCatch DropCatch DropCatch DropCatch DropCatch DropCatch DropCatch DropCatch DropCatch DropCatch DropCatch DropCatch DropCatch DropCatch DropCatch DropCatch DropCatch DropCatch DropCatch DropCatch DropCatch DropCatch DropCatch DropCatch DropCatch DropCatch DropCatch DropCatch DropCatch DropCatch DropCatch DropCatch
It’s a girl!
Reality TV star Kailyn Lowry has revealed that she and her family have been forced to leave their home in Canada because of a series of earthquakes.
If you've been living under a rock for the past year or so, you'll know that Riverdale has become one of the most talked-about new shows on television. Hopefully, this isn't the last parody The Tonight Show does of Riverdale, since there's more than enough craziness happening in
All images are copyrighted.
The Moody Blues’ Graeme Edge expressed the thoughts of many of the members of the Rock and Roll Hall of Fame’s class of 2018 during the 33rd annual induction ceremony on Saturday night (April 14) in Cleveland’s Public Auditorium.
It’s almost Christmas!
A selection of photos from around the world this week:
As Hollywood remains shadowed by sexual misconduct allegations against some of the most prominent men in the industry, the 2018 SAG Awards are taking some of the first visible steps to reflect the changes in store.
"I have a fear of handing the baby back like someone's gonna yell, 'Cut!' and they are going to take my kid away from me."
Happy birthday, Ed Sheeran!
It’s Uncle Jesse!
If you’ve ever wondered what it’s like to be married to a former Saved by the Bell star, now’s your chance.
In the latest episode of Keeping Up with the Kardashians, Kim Kardashian West gives her family media training.
The world of reality television is coming to an end!
A selection of photos from around the world this week:
The fallout from the suspension of Tavis Smiley at PBS continues. PBS sent a statement to USA TODAY late Wednesday declaring that the public broadcaster had "indefinitely suspended" distribution of Tavis Smiley, produced by Smiley's independent production company, TS Media.
Kenya Moore will definitely not be returning to The Real Housewives of Atlanta for season 11 as a new report reveals more details about her exit from the show.
Shania Twain has died at the age of 57.
The rape case against rapper Nelly is over.
A look back at some of the best and worst TV moments over the past 12 months.
Omarosa Manigault-Newman says she plans to write a tell-all about her time in the Trump White House.
"I am amazing because I get it now."
It’s only been a few hours since Disney announced that it will buy 21st Century Fox’s film and TV divisions, and Deadpool is already causing trouble for his new boss.
All images are copyrighted.
Meghan Markle has come fourth in a list of the most influential fashion stars of 2017.
They went back... back to the beginning.
Lenny Kravitz doesn't think it's at all awkward that his daughter, Zoe Kravitz, works on the same TV show as his former fiancée Nicole Kidman.
If you’re a fan of droids and belly rubs, you’ve come to the right place.
It's hard to believe it's 25 years since the debut of The Fresh Prince of Bel-Air.
Four women have come forward to accuse celebrity chef Mario Batali of sexual harassment.
Taylor Swift’s best friend, rapper Todrick Hall, has revealed that one of Swift’s exes was so bad for her that she was physically affected by it.
It’s finally here.
It's been four years since Eminem released a new album.
Kim Kardashian West takes her Snapchat followers on a tour of her mother Kris Jenner's Christmas decorations.
The Vanderpump Rules star says he’s seeing a life coach in Hollywood to work through his issues.
Matt Damon says he knew Harvey Weinstein was a womanizer.
This site uses cookies.
It's that time of year when newlywed couples share photos of their special day on social media.
Slow Pulp perform "Broadview" from their second album "Yard."
Star Wars: Episode IX - The Rise of Skywalker is in cinemas now.
If you’re a fan of Beyonce, Michelle Williams, Kelly Rowland and LaToya Luckett, you might have heard of Destiny’s Child.
"It doesn't have to be the same for them as it was for me, but that's his decision."
Anastasia is now a Disney princess.
Tammin Sursok is opening up to fans about a recent painful loss she is going through.
There’s a lot we don’t know about this story.
In the wake of multiple sexual misconduct allegations Mario Batali issued another apology to fans via his newsletter on Friday.
Kourtney Kardashian is the younger sister of reality TV star Kim Kardashian and reality TV star Khloé Kardashian.
The Beckhams enjoyed ice skating together the previous weekend, and now they're back together for Christmas!
We'd like to welcome your comments on this story.
Rose McGowan is not a fan of the news that many major actresses are planning on wearing black to the Golden Globes as a symbol of protest against harassment in Hollywood.
Are Selena Gomez and Justin Bieber Officially Back Together?
All images are copyrighted.
Camille Grammer has been diagnosed with Squamous Cell Carcinoma for the second time.
Cory Wharton and Cheyenne Floyd of The Challenge have revealed that they share a child, a 9-month-old daughter named Ryder.
Jay-Z surprised a cancer survivor with a hug during his concert in Oakland, California, on Saturday.
They're one of Australia's best-loved TV couples, and now James and James are taking their show on the road.
The Duke and Duchess of Cambridge have chosen a different nursery school for Princess Charlotte, Us Weekly has learned.
A selection of photos from around the world this week:
Oprah Winfrey has revealed that her forthcoming film A Wrinkle in Time shares many similarities with The Wizard of Oz.
How do you burn designer clothes?
It's been a difficult few months for one of the stars of Vanderpump Rules.
A selection of photos from around the world this week:
Pop star Enrique Iglesias and tennis star Anna Kournikova are expecting twins, sources tell PEOPLE.
All images are copyrighted.
It's official.
From Beyonce's twins to April the Giraffe giving birth, here's a look at some of the internet's most memorable moments.
Rob Lowe treated a team of firefighters to a dinner at his home as a thank you for saving his home and other houses in the neighborhood from the wildfires.
It's been more than two years since "The Office" came to an end, but it looks like the office may be coming back.
The New Titanic is coming to China.
Actor Matt Damon has come under fire for comments he made about sexual harassment last week.
Watch the video above to find out more about Toni Harris.
What is a cultural event?
On the slopes, Lindsey Vonn was a bust at the 2018 Winter Olympics.
American Ballet Theatre principal dancer Misty Copeland married her boyfriend of ten years, Olu Evans, on Sunday, PEOPLE has confirmed. Copeland, 33, the first African-American female principal dancer for the American Ballet Theatre, announced her engagement to Evans, an attorney (who also happens to be Taye Diggs’ cousin
The Christmas spirit is alive and well on this week’s Billboard Hot 100 chart.
Take a look at who's in the running to be this year's Christmas Number One.
It's that time of year again.
Pop stars Selena Gomez and Yolanda Hadid share their secrets about being married.
He's the latest celebrity to be accused of sexual assault in an epidemic of allegations hitting Hollywood.
Take a look at who's in the running to be this year's Christmas Number One.
It's that time of year again when Khloé Kardashian and Kris Jenner throw their annual New Year's Eve party.
El Poder en Ti
It’s one of Hollywood’s most high-profile divorces.
He's the one and only Troy Bolton in the High School Musical movies, to playing Link in the 2007 movie version of Hairspray, to now starring in The Greatest Showman...
Check out the full announcement below:
It's almost a year until Prince Harry and Meghan Markle's royal wedding.
It’s that time of year again when we look back at the best of the best in television.
"I want to get married, travel, then have kids," she says.
Check out Prince Royce's hot new video below!
All the Money in the World actress Michelle Williams talks about the surprising reason she was so excited to work with Christopher Plummer, and more.
Eric Johnson is an American football player who has a net worth of $10 million.
The late-night host and Pitch Perfect 3 star had fun cycling lyrics through Google Translate, which transformed “Deck the Halls” to “The Homes Are Covered.”
Randall and Koko from City of Hope have been raising money for charity by playing poker.
It’s not happening.
If you're a fan of the long-running US drama Desperate Housewives, then you're in for a shock.
The Duke and Duchess of Cambridge, Prince George and Princess Charlotte, Prince Harry and Meghan Markle, Prince Philip and Maria Teresa Turrion Borrallo.
It’s been a busy few weeks for the Duchess of Sussex.
Rob Dyrdek and his wife, Bryiana, have welcomed their second child, a girl named Nala Ryan Dyrdek.
A Star Wars fan with terminal cancer has fulfilled his dying wish to see the latest movie in the series.
It's that time of year again when celebrities announce the arrival of their first child.
If you've been keeping up with the latest celebrity baby news, then you've probably been keeping up with this one.
Disney on Ice Thanks Fans for Support After 'Scary' Hospitalization: 'Never Take Life For Granted'
Meet the Shibutanis!
How do you want to stay in touch with TV Guide?
Check out some of the best memes from this year's MTV Video Music Awards.
A selection of photos from around the world this week:
Playboy founder Hugh Hefner, who died last month at the age of 91, left millions of dollars in his will to his family.
In Wonder Woman, Gal Gadot found the role model she'd always wanted to play.
Eugenio Derbez explains why he left Mexico City for Hollywood, where films like Overboard and How to Be a Lover await.
It’s official.
The Real Housewives of Orange County's Meghan King Edmonds has named her twins Hayes and Hart.
It's been a year since one of our favourite reality TV stars gave birth to her third child.
As the 2018 Winter Olympics get under way in Pyeongchang, South Korea, athletes from the United States are putting the finishing touches on their uniforms.
If you want to know what’s going on in the world of Kelly Ripa and Mark Consuelos, look no further than their social media posts.
Halsey and G-Eazy are the cutest couple in music.
All images are copyrighted.
It’s official: Sam Smith and Brandon Flynn are dating!
All images are copyrighted.
Reality TV star Kailyn Lowry has revealed that she and her family have been forced to leave their home in Canada because of a series of earthquakes.
Hailey Baldwin and Shawn Mendes have been spotted hanging out together in Canada!
She’s one of the world’s most famous pop stars, and now one of her biggest fans is sharing how the star saved her life while she was pregnant.
The Christmas spirit is alive and well in the Conrad family.
The former Jackass star and his wife Nicole have welcomed their first child, son Phoenix Wolf Margera, he announced Saturday on Instagram.
Matt Damon's father, Kent, has died at the age of 74 after a long battle with cancer, the actor's representative confirmed to TODAY on Saturday. Matt Damon's father, Kent, has passed away at the age of 74 after a long battle with cancer, the actor's representative confirmed
The reality star is expecting her first child with boyfriend Tristan Thompson.
All images are copyrighted.
She was suspended for 10 days last year over comments she made on a podcast about the network's CO vaccine policy and former President Barack Obama's racial identity.
Pop star Jamie Lynn Spears is pregnant with her second child.
Country star Tyler Hubbard and his wife Hayley have welcomed their first child, a baby girl named Olivia Rose Hubbard.
Is anyone else shocked that Gigi Hadid and Zayn Malik have lasted this long?
Khloe Kardashian has revealed that she's six months into her pregnancy.
She's the queen of Christmas!
It’s that time of year again!
In case you missed it, here’s your chance to meet Desiree O.
Formula One driver Lewis Hamilton has apologised for telling his nephew that “boys don’t wear princess dresses.”
It's a tradition he's continued with his own kids, as he and his wife Gisele Bundchen showed off Brady's baking abilities on Instagram and Facebook.
.
Luxury Swiss watchmaker Brabus has unveiled a new colour scheme for its watches.
Watch highlights of the final of the Mobile World Congress in Barcelona.
Kim Kardashian's psoriasis is almost gone!
In this week’s Harpers BAZAAR Bride, Carrie Goldberg looks at some of the best wedding venues in New York City.
A selection of photos from around the world this week:
A revival of "Mad About You" would be set in the present day and follow Paul and Jamie Buchman's lives after their 17-year-old daughter went off to college.
If you've ever wondered what your vagina needs to look and feel like, here are 13 feminine hygiene products that address the special needs of your V to help keep it fresh, healthy and happy.
All images are copyrighted.
It's not every day you get to share a Christmas photo with your boyfriend, but that's exactly what one black-ish star did.
"She's done an absolutely amazing job, she's getting in there and it's the family that I suppose she never had."
All images are copyrighted.
After 16 years together, Brad Goreski and Gary Janetti have finally tied the knot!
Solange Knowles has been forced to cancel her New Year’s Eve performance at Afropunk Fest in South Africa due to a health struggle.
A Japanese airline says it made the right decision to return to Los Angeles after a passenger boarded the wrong flight.
All images are copyrighted.
U2 lead singer Bono has revealed he almost died during the making of U2's latest album, which explores the theme of mortality.
It's almost time to say goodbye to 2017.
Khloe Kardashian fires back at haters who criticised her workout regime - 'They're cleared and highly recommended!'
Justin Bieber crying in Hailey Baldwin's car?
If you’ve ever wondered why your hair looks so shiny and super-light blonde, the Scandi hairline may be the reason.
In our series of letters from African journalists, film-maker and columnist Farai Sevenzo looks at seven types of love, each with a name from Ancient Greek.
All images are copyrighted.
Mayim Bialik is an American actress and game show host.
All pictures subject to copyright.
A big swirling bucket of the latest rumors, celebrity news and Hollywood gossip.
Detailed information for 170 industries from 150+ countries and over 1 Mio.
All images subject to copyright.
The 75th annual Golden Globes are presented live at the Beverly Hilton Hotel in Beverly Hills, California, on Sunday.
The long-running television show, which is lead by Phil McGraw, came under fired Thursday when STAT and The Boston Globe published an exposé featuring claims from multiple guests.
Khloe Kardashian shows off growing baby bump she works out out with sister Kourtney Pregnant Khloe Kardashian is six months along as she prepares to welcome her first child with boyfriend Tristan Thompson.
If you've ever wondered what Khloé Kardashian uses to keep her skin clear, you're in luck.
If you're looking to improve the look of your skin, you've come to the right place.
Are you happy that Cody and Jessica won the $1 million prize and will now start a family?
Jodie Foster and Rosemarie DeWitt discuss the importance of female directors in the film and television industry.
Gayle King's Height 5ft 8 12 (174 cm) Peak height was 5ft 9 12 (176.5 cm) Current: 5ft 8in (172.7cm)
The Real Housewives of New York City star, 52, tells PEOPLE exclusively that she will be checking herself into a treatment facility.
The first episode of She’s Gotta Have It was released this week and it’s a pleasure to watch.
If you are a fan of either Selena Gomez or Becky G, you might be wondering what they are up to.
The couple has reached a custody agreement in regards to their 2-year-old son, Josey, according to court documents obtained by ET.
It’s that time of year again.
Jay-Z and Ava DuVernay’s new music video is here!
It’s a family road trip!
Scott Disick and Sofia Richie have been spending their first New Year’s Eve together and it looks like they are having a blast!
All photographs courtesy of Will Smith and Jada Pinkett Smith.
It’s been a tough year for television.
The Bachelor is back!
All images subject to copyright.
She's one of the most famous people in the world, and now she's pregnant too.
Will Smith celebrated his 20th wedding anniversary with wife Jada Pinkett Smith by posting a wonderful throwback photo from their big day back in 1997.
In case you missed it, Justin Bieber and Selena Gomez reportedly spent New Year's Eve together in Mexico.
A big swirling bucket of the latest rumors, celebrity news and Hollywood gossip.
BBC Sport takes a look at some of the key statistics behind the Premier League title race.
It's been another busy year for the Royal Family.
Find out more about TrendolizerTM at get.trendolizer.com
The troubled Miss America Organization has found a new leader.
In case you missed it, Justin Bieber and Selena Gomez reportedly spent New Year's Eve together in Mexico.
All images are copyrighted.
"I'm hoping, by then, the differences are minimal, but, again, I just don't know how it's all going to end up."
The Fall Out Boy's Pete Wentz and his girlfriend, Meagan Camper, are expecting a daughter this year.
It's set to be a big year for Prince Harry and Meghan Markle, and the couple ensured they saw in 2018 in style having jetted to the French Riviera for their New Year celebrations.
In a new trailer for Fifty Shades Freed, Anastasia Steele (Dakota Johnson) is surprised to learn the surprising news that she is pregnant, after marrying billionaire Christian Grey (Jamie Dornan).
"I am so excited to be engaged to the love of my life and my best friend.
The 75th annual Golden Globes are presented live at the Beverly Hilton Hotel in Beverly Hills, California, on Sunday.
Scott Disick and Sofia Richie are no longer together.
All images are copyrighted.
The final two contestants on The Bachelorette are engaged.
At Zeff Plastic Surgery, we are proud to offer a full range of cosmetic injectables.
Paris Hilton has decided on the fate of her 20-carat engagement ring.
As Becky G and Sebastian Lletget celebrate their one-year anniversary, we take a look back at some of their most romantic Instagram posts.
Beyoncé, The Weeknd and Eminem will headline the 2018 Coachella Valley Music and Arts Festival, the Goldenvoice promoters have announced.
All images subject to copyright.
It's been a busy few months for the Gaines family.
It's that time of year again.
As he prepares for his upcoming hosting gig at Sunday’s Golden Globe Awards, Seth Meyers had his skills put to the test on The Ellen DeGeneres Show, where the daytime host put him through an awards show boot camp.
All pictures are copyrighted.
Chip and Joanna Gaines are expecting their fifth child together.
A selection of photos from around the world this week:
.
He’s one of the world’s most famous men.
All images are copyrighted.
Sam Smith has admitted that he was "obsessive" about his body when he first started singing.
It’s that time of year again.
.
Laura Govan has spoken out about Tamar Braxton’s claim that she’s pregnant with Vincent Herbert’s baby.
A selection of photos from around the world this week:
Bruno Mars And Cardi B 'Finesse' The Remix With 'In Living Color'-Inspired Video YouTube The retro Cross Colours fits.
He’s one of the biggest YouTube stars in the world, and now he’s taking a break.
It's official: Chrissy Teigen and her husband, John Legend, are expecting their second child.
The Superstore star and husband Ryan Piers Williams both confirmed they are expecting their first child in coordinating social media posts on New Year’s Eve.
It’s hard to imagine anyone could hate Jessica Chastain, a lauded and Oscar-nominated actress who’s making a career all while championing women’s rights.
She’s one of music’s biggest stars, and now Lady Gaga has capped off her year with two Grammy Awards.
Angie Douthit has revealed in an Instagram post that she's about to begin her next round of chemotherapy.
Kendrick Lamar & SZA Team Up For ‘Black Panther’ Song ‘All The Stars’
Ansel Elgort shows off his driving skills in the snow in a PSA-esque tweet today (January 4). Ansel Elgort showed off his skills in the snow in an Instagram post yesterday (January 3) and shared it once again with a playful PSA-esque tweet today (January 4).
WWE superstar Nia Jax reflects on her role as a role model for women who find it difficult to embrace who they are in life.
We're down to the final three on The Bachelor, and to celebrate, we're taking a look back at the 20 most memorable seasons of The Bachelorette.
It’s only been a few days since Vanderpump Rules star Lala Kent went public with her married boyfriend, and now she’s offering some dating advice like some sort of relationship expert.
We Should Listen to Palestinians, Not Selena Gomez (Or Other Cele...
All images are copyrighted.
All images are copyrighted.
All images are copyrighted.
Erin has announced that she is pregnant with her first child.
She was my love, my heart, my best friend, my teacher, my rebel, my angel, my protector, my challenger, my partner, my muse, my wizard, my surprise, my gift, my comet, my liberator, my rock star, my completely impossible non-cooperator,
The Queen's granddaughter Zara Tindall and her husband Mike Tindall are expecting their second child.
Good Morning America co-host Lara Spencer is engaged to tech entrepreneur Rick McVey, her publicist confirms to PEOPLE.
The Timeless star and his wife Angela welcomed their first child, daughter MacKenlee Faire Lanter, on Saturday, Dec.
To find longevity as an artist, one must have growth, and no one is a better example than Justin Timberlake.
A selection of photos from around the world this week:
Liam Gallagher Slams Fellow Rock and Roll Hall of Fame Nominees as He Claims He's 'Done More' for the Genre
There's a saying in the fitness industry that if you're a trainer, you're the boss.
The Hollywood Foreign Press Association (HFPA) is the governing body of the Golden Globe Awards.
Take a look at who's in the running to be this year's Christmas Number One.
It’s that time of year again.
It’s a boy!
Three more women have come forward to accuse Paul Haggis of sexual assault.
All images subject to copyright.
Harry Potter star Emma Watson ditches her pixie cut for bangs!
Donald Glover reveals the inspiration behind Atlanta's second season.
A big swirling bucket of the latest rumors, celebrity news and Hollywood gossip.
All images are copyrighted.
Take a look at who's in the running to be this year's Christmas Number One.
The Mindy Project star Fortune Feimster is engaged to partner Jacquelyn Smith!
Laura Dern in Stella McCartney and Christian Dior
How long have Ben Affleck and Lindsay Shookus been together?
Frances McDormand gave a rousing speech demanding gender parity in the entertainment industry while accepting the Oscar for Best Actress at tonight's Academy Awards.
All photographs courtesy Selena Gomez.
Check out Khloe Kardashian’s Instagram post about her "revenge body" and let us know what you think!
Find out more about TrendolizerTM at get.trendolizer.com
Actresses Emma Stone, Susan Sarandon, Meryl Streep, Laura Dern, Michelle Williams, Calina Lawrence, Marai Larasi, Ai-jen Poo, Susan Sarandon, Laura Dern, Calina Lawrence, Mnica Ramrez, Billie Jean King, Tarana Burke, Susan Sarandon,
She’s one of Hollywood’s biggest stars, but it turns out Kelly Clarkson has a soft spot for Meryl Streep.
From Elle Fanning's side parting to Selena Gomez's slicked-back updo, these are the best celebrity hair and make-up looks from the 2024 Golden Globes red carpet.
In light of the Time’s Up movement, Bella Thorne is opening up about her past.
A selection of photos from around the world this week:
The nominations for the 76th Annual Golden Globe Awards were just announced!
This Is Us won two awards at the Golden Globes on Sunday night, and one of them was for one of the show's stars.
Check out some of the best memes from this year's MTV Video Music Awards.
Could Oprah Winfrey run for president in 2020?
It's not just women who need men to work toward gender equality, men need it too.
It’s Oscar time again.
All pictures subject to copyright.
It's almost time for Fifty Shades Freed to hit the big screen.
The Vampire Diaries star Ian Somerhalder was forced to miss the Golden Globe Awards after Moths ate his first Tux.
The lack of female directors in the best director category at this year's Golden Globe Awards has once again come under scrutiny.
The Fault in Our Stars stars Shailene Woodley and Ansel Elgort were reunited at the Golden Globe Awards on Sunday evening in Los Angles, when the lead actors of emotional teen film The Fault in Our Stars were reunited.
Selena Gomez has unfollowed all but 37 accounts on Instagram.
Katy Perry is judging on the new American Idol alongside Lionel Richie and Luke Bryan, but she says that she can’t be the mean judge like Simon Cowell.
It's that time of year again.
Cristiano Ronaldo’s girlfriend Georgina Rodriguez shared an adorable photo of their daughter together, Alana Martina, and it’s the cutest thing you’ll see today.
Ten different Oprahs she served us in 2018—the Oprahs that had the internet sharing, cackling, and reposting again and again.
The Duchess of Sussex's half-sister says she's not cashing in on her sister's royal romance.
The Jersey Shore reunion is finally here.
If you’re a fan of jaw-dropping moments on The Bachelor, then you’ve come to the right place.
"I used to have no problem staring into the face of the hostess when I said, ‘Just one for dinner, thank you.'"
Gregor Samsa's The Big Oxmox is one of the most famous books in the history of literature.
A look back at some of the most memorable moments from the world of television.
Gregor Samsa's The Big Oxmox is one of the most famous books in the history of literature.
It's been 20 years since we last saw Roseanne's husband, Dan.
It was a family affair for the Affleck-Garner brood this weekend.
A big swirling bucket of the latest rumors, celebrity news and Hollywood gossip.
The winners of the 2017 Grammy Awards, held at the Staples Center in Los Angeles on 22 February 2017.
All images are copyrighted.
Kristen Bell and Ted Danson star in NBC’s comedy series “The Good Place,” about a group of misfits who are sent to hell to torture each other.
A photo posted on Tessa Thompson’s Instagram account shows Lena Dunham, one of the stars taking part in the Time’s Up initiative at last night’s Golden Globes ceremony.
CBS has found a new co-host for its morning news show.
Gianni Versace was a “brave and honest man,” his family says.
Ricky Martin is engaged to artist Jwan Yosef.
It’s one of the most talked-about pregnancies of the year so far.
Former ice skater Tonya Harding threatened to walk out of an interview with Piers Morgan after the Good Morning Britain host implied that the former ice skater is using the film I, Tonya to “play the victim” and questioned her involvement with in the attack on her rival Nancy Kerrigan.
Judd Apatow will host the 70th Annual DGA Awards, and Don Mischer has been appointed Awards Chair for the event.
Hugh Grant and girlfriend Anna Eberstein were photographed in a New York City airport on Tuesday, with the Swedish television producer's baby bump peeking through her coat. The British actor, 57, and girlfriend Anna Eberstein were photographed in a New York City airport on Tuesday, with the Swedish television producer's baby
Pop star Katy Perry admits it can be difficult keeping her personal life private.
"I'm really getting in touch with my inner Diana Ross."
It's a week of celebrations for the Cambridge family, with the pregnant Duchess due to give birth to her third baby in April - a little brother or sister for George and Charlotte.
Prince Harry and Meghan Markle are set to get married in May, but who will DJ at their big day?
The New York Police Department is investigating rape allegations against Simmons.
The fallout from #RoachGate consumed Sunday’s episode of Real Housewives of Atlanta, as NeNe Leakes called Kim Zolciak-Biermann and her daughter Brielle Biermann “racist” after they claimed she lived in a “roach nest.”
Gregor Samsa's The Big Oxmox is one of the most famous books in the history of literature.
James Franco Denies Sexual Misconduct Claims, Saying They're 'Not Accurate' James Franco addressed the sexual misconduct claims circulating about him on social media Tuesday night, telling late-night host Stephen Colbert that "the things I heard on Twitter are not accurate."
El Poder en Ti
All pictures subject to copyright.
The designer behind Ana's wedding dress in Fifty Shades Freed tells us how it took her three months to make it.
It’s been a busy year for the actress.
G-Eazy has pulled out of a clothing line with H&M.
The couple have been going hot and heavy since they took their relationship public over Halloween.
It was a family affair for Angelina Jolie!
It’s been a long time coming.
Valentine’s Day is just around the corner.
It’s not easy being a parent!
When Serena Williams gave birth to her first child, Alexis Olympia, in March, she had just undergone a successful C-section operation.
The Duke of Cambridge was at the Royal Marsden Hospital in Chelsea, London, to view two pioneering robotic surgeries.
Ashley Wagner says she was "devastated" to learn that her Olympic dreams had come to an end.
A selection of photos from around the world this week:
It's not every day you get to rub shoulders with the former president of the United States and the actress who plays him in I, Tonya. Margot Robbie just topped your epic honeymoon story, thanks to Ellen DeGeneres, Portia de Rossi, former president Barack Obama, and her husband Tom Ackerley's
Brokeback Mountain star Jake Gyllenhaal has opened up about his friendship with late actor Heath Ledger.
The Real Housewives of New York City star Bethenny Frankel has launched her own clothing line.
If you’re a fan of Bachelor Pad and Bachelor in Paradise, you’re in for a treat this winter.
It's all about the future.
Jennifer Lopez will guest-star on "Will & Grace" and "Shades of Blue" this week.
If you’re anything like us, you’ll have seen your fair share of celebrity style transformations.
It's not every day you receive a thank-you note from the world's most famous couple.
EltaMD is one of the world's leading manufacturers of high-performance sunscreen.
Photos: Marcus Grodd and Ally Lutar
Kids should never go to a circus that uses animals, says Juan Pablo Di Pace.
"If I've done something wrong, I will fix it."
Scarlett Johansson finally gets her solo outing as Natasha Romanoff in Marvel Studios' Black Widow and is joined by Florence Pugh, David Harbour and Rachel Weisz.
It’s been quite a week in California.
She was suspended for 10 days last year over comments she made on a podcast about the network's CO vaccine policy and former President Barack Obama's racial identity.
"I wasn’t expecting it, I wasn’t prepared for it."
If you're looking for a way to stand out in your Winter garb, take a cue from Gigi Hadid. If you were ever looking for a way to stand out in your Winter garb, take a cue from Gigi Hadid.
Sarah Jessica Parker is celebrating her 60th birthday today.
Marriage Boot Camp: Reality Stars Family Edition is coming to WE tv in March 2018 and Us Weekly can exclusively reveal the cast.
Jennifer Lawrence and Joy Lawrence are two of Hollywood’s most talented actresses, but when it came to roles in recent films, they were cast in roles that were almost too old for them.
If you’re a fan of Drake, you’re probably wondering what happened between him and one of his biggest fans.
All images are copyrighted.
It's that time of year again when the biggest names in Hollywood come together for the biggest night of the year.
The second season of Ryan Murphy’s American Crime Story: The Assassination of Gianni Versace is set to premiere on FX next week, but the fashion designer’s family wants viewers to know that much of the story has been sensationalized.
Mot & Chandon celebrated the glitz and glamour of Hollywood’s biggest night at the 76th Golden Globe Awards in Los Angeles.
A war of words has broken out between a Hollywood actor and an actress.
Kelvin Hayden's net worth is estimated to be $17.5 million.
It's not every day you get to wear a dress made out of tulle and crystals.
More big names are on board to help tell the stories of Philip K.
Ellen DeGeneres' father has died, the talk show host has announced.
They’re one of Hollywood’s cutest young stars!
In Case You Missed It: a round-up of interesting links shared over the weekend.
Watch Taylor Swift's new video for "End Game" below.
It's been a week to remember for the star of Wonder Woman.
It’s the end of an era for one Hollywood couple.
The woman at the heart of one of the most infamous crimes in Olympic history has admitted for the first time that she was involved in the plot.
Camila Cabello’s first single since leaving Fifth Harmony has been leaked online.
From sprawling Gothic-style cathedrals to chapels located on palace grounds, these regal spots will take you inside the life of a betrothed royal.
It's almost time for the Real Housewives of New Jersey reunion.
It’s a girl!
Is this the last season of Big Little Lies?
Kourtney Kardashian's relationship with her sisters on Keeping Up With The Kardashians is very different than how it is in real life.
WWE Premium is your home for all things WWE.
Check out these first images from Hulu’s upcoming World War II drama Catch-22, starring George Clooney, Greg Abbott, and more.
Stranger Things star David Harbour is reportedly seeing Fantastic Beasts actress Alison Sudol.
The late Steve Irwin’s son, Robert Irwin, is recovering after having his appendix removed.
A selection of photos from around the world this week:
The winners have been announced for the 24th annual Screen Actors Guild Awards.
A selection of photos from around the world this week:
A look back at some of the best and worst moments of the 2011 Screen Actors Guild Awards.
All photographs courtesy Carly Waddell and Evan Bass.
A former Dollhouse actress has come forward with allegations of sexual assault.
High School Musical star Zac Efron has been linked up with a number of women over the years.
The couple, who are expecting their third child together "any day now," stepped out for dinner at Craig's in West Hollywood on Friday.
The final rose has been handed out on The Bachelor.
To celebrate the arrival of her first child with husband William Tell, reality TV star and designer Lauren Conrad shares her first-hand account of life as a new mother.
Condé Nast has announced a new Code of Conduct for photographers working for the company.
Orlando Bloom celebrated his 41st birthday with Leonardo DiCaprio by attending the third race of the Formula E season in Marrakesh, Morocco on Friday.
In an era when TV viewers routinely hear Samantha Bee utter all kinds of profanity on basic-cable’s TBS and listen to all sorts of once-offensive language on networks ranging from FX to HBO, who cares if someone drops a discouraging word on “SNL”?
John Cena took to Twitter to share how "meaningful" his engagement party to Nikki Bella was, and to declare his love for his future bride.
All images subject to copyright.
Bachelor in Paradise alums Evan Bass and Carly Waddell are set to tie the knot on ABC Tuesday when the fourth season returns for the second half of its two-night premiere.
Ava DuVernay won Entertainer of the Year and “Girls Trip” won best motion picture at the 49th NAACP Image Awards on Monday night.
It’s a girl!
A former Dollhouse actress has come forward with allegations of sexual assault.
The former Glee star was all smiles at her first public event since her domestic battery arrest last November, stepping out at YouTube's 2018 winter Television Critics Association press tour on Saturday.
Blake Lively has shared a photo of herself in a 1950s fashion magazine with the caption: "Classiest I'll ever be."
It's not every day you see a house on fire...
Prince Harry and Meghan Markle's romance is about to be turned into a TV movie.
The Cranberries singer Dolores O’Riordan has died at the age of 46.
Bobby Zarin died of thyroid cancer on January 13, 2018, at the age of 71.
Danica Patrick and Aaron Rodgers have been linked romantically since the start of the new year, right before Patrick began promoting her new fitness book. Patrick and Rodgers have been linked romantically since the start of the new year, right before Patrick began promoting her new fitness book.
Queen Elizabeth II says Princess Charlotte is "the one in charge" at home.
It’s a boy!
Timothée Chalamet is the latest actor to publicly distance himself from Woody Allen.
It was a night to celebrate the best of black film and television.
You've just signed in to PBS, but first, we need you to sign in to your account.
It’s a boy!
In her latest film, Keira Knightley plays the legendary French novelist Colette, who was involved in an exploitative relationship with her husband, a writer known as Willy.
“I’m really sorry,” Damon told Kathie Lee Gifford.
Javi Marroquin has spoken out for the first time about his split from Briana DeJesus, telling Radar Online, “Some questions about our futures couldn’t be answered because we both do have kids and live two different lifestyles, her being in Florida and me in Delaware.”
If you were heartbroken by Monday night's Bachelor elimination, you don't need to mourn for too long. If you were heartbroken by Monday night's Bachelor elimination, you don't need to mourn for too long.
American Crime Story: The Assassination of Gianni Versace is Ryan Murphy’s most ambitious yet.
All images are copyrighted.
All images are copyrighted.
All images are copyrighted.
A round-up of some of the key quotes from the Keeping Up With the Kardashians stars on the first anniversary of the birth of their first child, True.
Is this the end of the Kardashian-Jenner romance?
Quinn Perkins wasn’t killed off in last week’s episode of “Scandal.”
Awkwafina and Laverne Cox will announce the nominees for the 25th annual Screen Actors Guild Awards on Wednesday at the Pacific Design Center in West Hollywood, California.
The Fab 5 are back! The Fab 5 return for the second season of Netflix's beloved reboot of Queer Eye, and for the first time in the show's history, they're making over a woman and a transgender man.
For the first time since human gummy bear Miley Cyrus and youngest Hemsworth, Liam, reunited earlier this year, The Voice coach has confirmed that they are, in fact, engaged again.
It’s official: Grey’s Anatomy will return for the 2018-19 broadcast season.
Kristen Bell gushes praise in the most heartfelt and funny way Saturday in tribute to her husband Dax Shepard, who is celebrating his 14th year sobriety birthday.
The Duke and Duchess of Cambridge have visited a children’s mental health centre in south-east London.
Patrick Dempsey talks about leaving Grey’s Anatomy, repairing his marriage and relishing his new role in Bridget Jones’s Baby.
It's been a long time coming.
Padma Lakshmi is doing her bit to help a former Top Chef contestant battling cancer.
Katie Couric is returning to NBC for another Olympics.
She's best known for playing Carrie Bradshaw in the hit TV series Sex and the City.
A selection of photos from around the world this week:
Ellen Pompeo has spent 14 seasons as Meredith Grey, the star of ABC's hit drama "Grey's Anatomy."
Jessica Chastain is on the cover of WSJ. Magazine‘s Talents & Legends issue.
All images are copyrighted.
Will Ferrell interviews Roger Federer as Ron Burgundy at the Australian Open.
It’s official!
Zac Efron will play serial killer Ted Bundy in Extremely Wicked, Shockingly Evil and Vile at the Sundance Film Festival.
It's not every day you see a model wearing slippers.
The 24th annual Screen Actors Guild Awards are just around the corner, and all the major players will once again be competing for a coveted Actor statuette.
With the Oscars just over a week away, we look back at some of the Irish actress’ best red carpet looks as she prepares to find out whether she will win her nomination for Best Actress in Greta Gerwig’s Lady Bird.
Jill Zarin and Bobby Zarin on the set of "The Real Housewives of New York".
All images subject to copyright.
She may be one of the hottest artists in pop right now, but Camila Cabello isn’t too cool for school.
Prince William has debuted a surprising new look during his visit to a children's hospital in London on Thursday.
Actress Brigitte Bardot says the #metoo movement is "hypocritical" and "ridiculous."
A selection of photos from around the world this week:
Anika Noni Rose has spoken out about being sexually assaulted on a plane.
Grey’s Anatomy showrunner Krista Vernoff and star Camilla Luddington talk to The Hollywood Reporter about the show’s timely domestic abuse storyline, Ellen Pompeo’s candid interview and what’s next for Jo.
Stranger Things star David Harbour has fulfilled his promise to officiate a fan's wedding.
Selma director Ava DuVernay is set to break a major milestone: she will become the first woman of color to direct blockbuster movie with a budget of at least $100 million when she gets behind the camera for her upcoming film, A Wrinkle in Time.
Justin Bieber’s mother has come out in support of her son in the ongoing feud between House Bieber and House Gomez.
It’s almost time for the new Heathers!
As the Duke and Duchess of Sussex’s tour of Australia and New Zealand comes to an end, we caught up with the designer who made one of Meghan’s go-to pieces.
Kim Kardashian West has had enough of Lamar Odom.
All images are copyrighted.
It's almost time for Grey's Anatomy's 14th season to kick off.
Lifetime has commissioned a new unscripted series from Red Arrow Studios, the company behind the hit reality show “Married at First Sight.”
Listen to Lisa Clark every day on The Wave!
It’s been a busy few weeks for the Kardashians.
One of the women who has accused Michael Douglas of sexual misconduct has spoken publicly for the first time.
A selection of photos from around the world this week:
Watch the latest episodes of The Real Housewives of Atlanta
James Franco will attend the 2018 Screen Actors Guild Awards on Sunday, January 21, despite the recent sexual misconduct allegations made against him, the actor’s rep confirmed to CNN.
It’s not easy losing weight.
She’s been a vocal supporter of the # Entertainment and Time’s Up movements, calling for more female representation in film.
It's a knockout! Maryse Ouellet had some exciting baby news for Mike 'The Miz' Mizanin on [...]
"I think we'll see her go down that route for the wedding day as well."
Sex and the City's Samantha Jones is one of the most iconic characters in TV history.
Actor Tom Hardy has revealed that he once recorded a full length rap album.
It was another busy week for the Bellas on Monday Night Raw.
The Teen Mom OG star is expecting her third child with her husband, Tyler Baltierra, Us Weekly can exclusively confirm.
He may be one of the most famous men in the world, but Jamie Dornan has revealed that he had a bit of a problem with women when he was a teenager.
Prince Harry and Meghan Markle's royal wedding is finally here!
He may not be one of the world’s biggest pop stars, but Justin Timberlake has said he’d never consider a Las Vegas residency.
The Duchess of Sussex's signature pieces and where to shop them.
A big swirling bucket of the latest rumors, celebrity news and Hollywood gossip.
She’s one of the world’s most famous supermodels.
All images subject to copyright.
It’s that time of year again.
The 60th annual Grammy Awards will take place on Sunday, January 28 at Madison Square Garden in New York City.
It’s been more than two years since Heath Ledger died, but his family is still trying to come to terms with his death.
American Crime Story star Darren Criss is engaged to his girlfriend Mia Swier!
All images are copyrighted.
All images are copyrighted.
Cindy Crawford's son, Presley Walker Gerber, made his runway debut at Paris Fashion Week on Saturday.
It’s official: two former contestants from The Bachelor and The Bachelorette have found love!
All images are copyrighted.
Scarlett Johansson has called out Golden Globe winner James Franco for his support of the Time’s Up movement against sexual misconduct.
All images are copyrighted.
Stranger Things star Millie Bobby Brown wore a high-low sequin pink Calvin Klein 205W39NYC halter dress and Converse sneakers to the Screen Actors Guild Awards.
Alison Brie addressed the allegations of sexual misconduct made against her brother-in-law, James Franco, on the SAG Awards red carpet.
All images are copyrighted.
All photographs  Screen Actors Guild / Getty Images.
Regina King was snubbed by the Screen Actors Guild for her work in Barry Jenkins’ “If Beale Street Could Talk.”
Millie Bobby Brown may only be 13 years old, but the star of Stranger Things just proved that she is wise beyond her years.
If you're a fan of classic Hollywood glamour, you're in for a treat.
The Screen Actors Guild (SAG) and the American Federation of Television and Radio Artists (AFTRA) are locked in a contract dispute.
Nicole Kidman won a Screen Actors Guild Award for her role in Big Little Lies on Sunday night.
It’s not every day you get a standing ovation from your former co-star.
"It's hard to be a man these days."
This Is Us star Sterling K. Brown continued his reign on award season on Sunday night when he became the first black actor to win outstanding performance by a male actor in a drama at the SAG Awards.
All images subject to copyright.
The Duke and Duchess of York are expecting their second child.
The groom-to-be has been described as a "charming boy" who is "not the most intelligent".
All images are copyrighted.
Actors pose in the press room with their awards for outstanding performance by a male actor in a drama series for "This Is Us" and for outstanding performance by an ensemble in a drama series for "This Is Us" at the 24th annual Screen Actors Guild Awards Sunday.
It’s back.
All images are copyrighted.
All photographs  Screen Actors Guild / Getty Images.
Scheana Marie, Stassi Schroeder, Katie Maloney, Brittany Cartwright, Billie Lee, James Kennedy...
It’s that time of year again!
Tarek and Christina El Moussa are best known for their TLC show Flip or Flop.
Whether you’re hosting a viewing party or relaxing couch, we’ve got the cocktails ready for you to mix up in celebration.
It’s one of the biggest cliffhangers in TV history.
All images are copyrighted.
Jake Gyllenhaal has spoken out for the first time about the death of Brokeback Mountain co-star Heath Ledger.
Deontay Wilder had the support of his fiancee and his children as he became world heayweight champion, knocking out almost every one of his oppponents Deontay Wilder is not the only famous name in his household.
All images are copyrighted.
It’s not easy being in a long-term relationship.
Miley Cyrus and Elton John perform "Tiny Dancer" at the 59th Grammy Awards.
Game of Thrones actress Maisie Williams will be a bridesmaid at Sophie Turner’s wedding to Joe Jonas.
It's been a whirlwind year for one couple.
It's been a long time coming.
It’s a boy!
It's that time of year again.
Bill Cosby has performed in public for the first time since a sex abuse scandal embroiled him in 2015.
It's hard to believe it's been 10 years since Heath Ledger died.
Olympic gold medal-winning gymnast Aly Raisman has called out the United States Olympic Committee for not doing enough to protect athletes from sexual abuse.
It's been a busy week for Kate Middleton.
Laurie Metcalf is nominated for an Oscar for her role in "Lady Bird."
In case you missed it, here's a look at what's coming to Netflix in February.
It’s time to stop talking about age and start talking about marriage!
It was one of the biggest gaffes in Academy Awards history.
The Duke and Duchess of Cambridge's children, Prince George, 4, Charlotte, 3, and Prince Louis, 4, all made their Trooping the Colour debuts on Thursday.
Margot Robbie's reaction to her Oscars nomination for her role as Tonya Harding is the best thing I've seen all week.
With more than a little 24K Magic, Bruno Mars was pure gold at the 60th annual Grammy Awards in New York on Sunday.
Talk show host Steve Wilkos has been charged with driving under the influence of alcohol.
BBC Sport is now available as a web app on Apple and Android devices.
BBC Sport is now available as a web app on Apple and Android devices.
How to Get Away with Murder's Season 4 finale gave us more answers than questions for once, but that doesn't mean we're... How to Get Away with Murder's Season 4 finale gave us more answers than questions for once, but that doesn't mean we're not still ready
It’s that time of year again.
Kylie Minogue has won three Grammy Awards, including record of the year and song of the year.
Jack's last moments are spent trying to spend time with his family.
Katy Perry Sings 'Bad Blood' as She Watches Taylor Swift's Sydney Eras Tour Show: 'Got to See an Old Friend Shine'
.
David Schwimmer, best known as Ross from Friends, is the star of four teasers for a spot we’ll never see.
Prosecutors in Spain say they are investigating Shakira for possible tax evasion during the three years before she officially moved to Barcelona.
Check out Cher Lloyd's announcement that she's pregnant with her first child.
This year's Grammy Awards was not just a disappointment for those who hoped to see rap break out from genre-specific categories, but it was also noticeably short on female winners.
Taylor Kitsch plays Branch Davidian leader David Koresh in a six-part miniseries on the Paramount network.
It’s a girl!
WWE stars John Cena and Nikki Bella are calling it quits just one year after getting engaged in the middle of the ring in front of tens of thousands of fans at Wrestlemania 33.
Trace Adkins is joining The Voice!
It’s that time of year again: Vanity Fair’s annual Hollywood cover.
She’s one of the rare musicians who manages to stay relevant with listeners younger than themselves.
With five nominations, SZA is the most nominated female at this year's Grammy Awards, with five nominations: Best New Artist, Best R&B Song ("Supermodel"), Best Rap/Sung Collabration ("Love Galore"), Best R&B Performance (The Weekend), and Best Urban
The winners of the 2017 Grammy Awards, held at the Staples Center in Los Angeles on 22 February 2017.
In an interview given before her speech at the Golden Globes, Oprah Winfrey says she's not interested in a presidential bid.
The cast of Big Little Lies have been sharing the first teasers from the second series of the hit HBO drama.
It's been a turbulent year for one YouTube star.
“I do miss him but I feel like everything happens for a reason and maybe we needed this time apart to help us get stronger together.”
The Super Bowl is America’s biggest party.
Olympic gymnast Aly Raisman said disgraced doctor Larry Nassar deserved to spend the rest of his life in prison, but insisted more needed to be done to uncover how he managed to sexually abuse scores of young girls and athletes in his care.
Josh Flagg and Bobby Boyd may have just tied the knot, but the Million Dollar Listing Los Angeles agent knew long before he proposed that these two would one day be married.
Kendrick Lamar kicked off the Grammys with powerful political performance and he had little help from rockers U2 and comedian Dave Chappelle.
The wait is finally over.
Jessica Chastain came to the aid of Octavia Spencer when she learned that the actress was making less than other actresses, even with her Academy Award for "The Help."
It’s one of the most talked-about celebrity splits of the year.
Find out more about TrendolizerTM at get.trendolizer.com
It's that time of year again!
The Shondaland drama will be called Station 19, executive producer Paris Barclay announced Thursday as part of a social media campaign for the show.
It’s summer in Calabasas, which means new beginnings for all three of the Kardashian sisters.
Kourtney Kardashian and Scott Disick are not looking to get back together following her split from Younes Bendjima, a source tells Us Weekly.
Take a look at who's in the running to be this year's Christmas Number One.
Check out Lady Gaga's new stripped-down version of "Joanne" below.
All images are copyrighted.
A group of government students at Cleveland Heights High School got to meet Lawrence, who joined the non-partisan grassroots anti-corruption organization Represent.US for a surprise visit to the school.
Do you think they’re dating?
Check out Donald Glover’s Grammys performance below.
"This Is Us" star Mandy Moore says she's "not going to take anyone's sh--."
January Jones says being a single mother limits her sex life.
A selection of photos from around the world this week:
All images are copyrighted.
Find out more about TrendolizerTM at get.trendolizer.com
This year's Grammy Awards was not just a disappointment for those who hoped to see rap break out from genre-specific categories, but it was also noticeably short on female winners.
When it comes to dancing, Jenna Dewan Tatum says, "I don't think there's a day that goes by that I don't do it."
Stevie Nicks started to choke up as she gave a touching speech about her late friend Tom Petty during a pre-Grammys tribute event on Friday.
The 60th annual Grammy Awards will take place on Sunday, January 28 at Madison Square Garden in New York City.
Jay-Z talked candidly about his determination to save his marriage with singer Beyoncé, telling CNN’s Van Jones that the couple had chosen “fight for our love.”
The Los Angeles mansion once owned by Michael Jordan has been sold.
As Beyoncé prepares for her world tour, we take a look at some of the lesser-known facts about the superstar.
From their first red carpet appearance to their latest pregnancy announcement, here's everything you need to know about Chrissy Teigen and John Legend's relationship.
The winners of the 2017 Grammy Awards, held at the Staples Center in Los Angeles on 22 February 2017.
Carrie Fisher won her first Grammy award posthumously on Sunday, taking home the prize for best spoken word album for the audio version of her memoir The Princess Diarist.
A selection of photos from around the world this week:
All images are copyrighted.
The 60th annual Grammy Awards will take place on Sunday, January 28 at Madison Square Garden in New York City.
The actress was joined by daughters Zahara, 13, and Shiloh, 11, during a UNHCR trip to the Zataari refugee camp in Jordan on Sunday.
All images are copyrighted.
All pictures are copyrighted.
It's not every day you get to share the stage with one of the biggest pop stars in the world.
The winners of the 2017 Grammy Awards, held at the Staples Center in Los Angeles on 22 February 2017.
The winners of the 2017 Grammy Awards, held at the Staples Center in Los Angeles on 22 February 2017.
"I'm boycotting the Grammys because they don't air the other rap awards on TV."
It's not every day you get to walk the red carpet at the biggest awards show in the world.
As she collected her ninth Grammy for her featured credit on Kendrick Lamar's "Loyalty."
Blue Ivy Carter stole the show at the Grammys!
It was an emotional night for some of the biggest names in music.
Cardi B, John Legend, Cher, Snoop Dogg, and DJ Khaled all auditioned to be the voice of Donald Trump in a skit on The Late Late Show.
This year's Grammy Awards was not just a disappointment for those who hoped to see rap break out from genre-specific categories, but it was also noticeably short on female winners.
Beyoncé's makeup artist, Sir John Bailey, has revealed all the products he used to create the Queen's Grammys look.
BBC Sport takes a look back at some of the most memorable moments from this year's Rugby World Cup.
It's been 13 years, but "Nipplegate" is still fresh in the minds of Janet Jackson's fans.
My True Crime Story airs Tuesdays at 10/9c on truTV.
"She will always be in the front of my mind as I make decisions on the film."
The #GrammysSoMale hashtag has been trending on social media this week after it was revealed that there were no female winners in any of the major categories at this year’s Grammys.
"Rowdy" Ronda Rousey made her WWE debut late Sunday night at the Royal Rumble, and it was announced just moments after the show went off the air that the former UFC bantamweight champion has indeed signed a full-time contract with WWE.
It wasn’t a night to celebrate, but it was a night to break the language barrier.
He may have won five Grammys this year, but Childish Gambino still plans to retire his stage name.
"We're all just doing the best we can!"
The film “Citizen Rose” tells the story of actress Rose McGowan, who went public with her claim that she was raped by a Hollywood producer 20 years ago.
A look back at some of the top TV news stories over the past 24 hours.
Pink surprised a young fan at her concert in Vancouver, Canada, by handing her the mic and giving her a run for her money.
Prince Harry and Meghan Markle say their vows at Windsor Castle on Saturday.
The Vanderpump Rules star opens up to In Touch about his split from his best friend, James Kennedy.
All images are copyrighted.
The #GrammysSoMale hashtag has been trending on social media this week after it was revealed that there were no female winners in any of the major categories at this year’s Grammys.
It's less than a week until one of the most anticipated royal weddings of all time.
Catelynn Lowell and Tyler Baltierra are expecting a daughter, the Teen Mom OG couple revealed exclusively to Us Weekly.
Lady Antebellum's Hillary Scott and husband Chris Tyrrell welcomed twin daughters to the world on Monday.
“I will not let everything I’ve worked for be diminished by people taking offense to my accomplishments and feeling the need to tell me how much I suck.”
All images are copyrighted.
It’s that time of year again.
She's one of the world's most famous singers, but did you know she's also one of the most famous women in the world?
If you’ve been keeping up with Big Little Lies, you’ve probably heard that one of the show’s main characters died at the end of season one.
Mark Salling, best known as Noah "Puck" Puckerman on Glee, has died at the age of 35.
Gigi and Bella Hadid embrace one another naked on the new March cover of British Vogue and you gotta think it comes at some pretty impeccable timing.
President Donald Trump will deliver his first State of the Union address to a joint session of Congress on Tuesday night.
"Anybody who kisses his ass is gross to me."
Police are investigating the death of former Glee star Mark Salling.
Blake Griffin’s ex-girlfriend, Lolo Jones, is slamming him as a bad kisser.
Roswell, New Mexico is back.
Kristin Cavallari is gearing up for one of the biggest days of her life.
"I really don't care, do you?"
All images subject to copyright.
Kelly Clarkson has come to the defence of women in music after Grammys president Neil Portnow said women need to “step up” if they want to win.
Harry Potter’s Albus Dumbledore is returning to the big screen in Fantastic Beasts and Where to Find Them.
RuPaul’s Drag Race is returning for its 10th season on Logo.
Valentine’s Day is just around the corner, and if you’re like us, you’re going to want to make the most of it by wearing lipstick.
Watch BBC Sport highlights as Wales beat England in the Six Nations.
Lupita Nyong’o designed a dress for her mother at the premiere of Black Panther.
In the wake of a series of sexual assault allegations against singer-songwriter Lizzo, we take a look back at her career.
Mark Salling was 'depressed' and 'lonely' in his last days before apparent suicide.
"I look like a Kim clone!"
From left, Henry Cavill, Tom Cruise, Ving Rhames and Angela Bassett in a scene from "Mission: Impossible - Fallout."
Happy birthday, Justin Timberlake!
Check out the new trailer for "Avengers: Infinity War" below.
When the show returns for its second season, Megan will still want to keep up the ruse so she can keep her relationship with Kyle (Josh Henderson), but that relationship is going to get a lot more complicated.
All photographs are copyrighted.
Take a look at who's in the running to be this year's Christmas Number One.
The wrongful death lawsuit filed against actor Jim Carrey by the family of his late girlfriend, Cathriona White, has been dismissed.
Naya Rivera stepped out for the first time following the news of her ex-boyfriend and Glee costar Mark Salling’s death.
One Direction - What Makes You Beautiful
Rose McGowan has defended her bizarre interview with Stephen Colbert.
Dwayne “The Rock” Johnson is promoting his latest tentpole “Rampage,” and he isn’t shying away from speaking about his personal battle with depression.
Logan Paul says he’s been receiving death threats after posting a video showing a suicide victim.
Christie Brinkley's daughter has hit back at an online troll who called her "hideous".
All images are copyrighted.
He’s lost 26 pounds in five weeks and now Tyler Baltierra says he’s learning how to cook healthier.
In a new interview, Charlie Puth has revealed how his short-lived romance with Selena Gomez affected his new song, “We Don’t Talk Anymore.”
“This is a very sad end to it, but I know that he’s at peace now.”
It’s back.
If you're a racing driver, you're in luck.
What would a Han Solo standalone original movie be about?
It's not every day you get the chance to meet the Duchess of Cambridge, but today she did just that.
It's that time of year again! Whether it's a romantic dinner for two, with the gal-pals, family outing or a "treat yourself" spa day, ET is gathering up the celebrities who have rocked perfect red, white and pink V-Day-inspired ensembles to give you some
If you’ve ever had a beef with Kim Kardashian West, you might want to think again.
The death of Mark Salling has been ruled a suicide, according to the Los Angeles coroner.
Anna Faris, left, and Allison Janney in a scene from the CBS sitcom “Mom.”
All images are copyrighted.
If you are looking for the best Victorias Secret perfumes for women, then you have come to the right place.
The New England Patriots and the Philadelphia Eagles will meet in Sunday's Super Bowl.
As Justin Timberlake prepares to perform at Sunday’s Super Bowl Halftime Show, his wife, Jessica Biel, appears in his latest music video.
All images are copyrighted.
Find out more about TrendolizerTM at get.trendolizer.com
It’s been nearly 20 years since the curtain came down on one of TV’s most beloved sitcoms.
Justin Timberlake will be wearing Stella McCartney for his Super Bowl performance.
It's been a month since The Bachelor's Bekah Martinez was eliminated from the show.
Bachelor host Chris Harrison says the upcoming Bachelor Winter Games spin-off will be “some of the best television we’ve ever produced.”
NBA champion Stephen Curry and his wife, Ayesha, have announced the birth of their third child, a baby boy.
"I've never met Kylie Jenner."
Justin Timberlake unveiled his new album, “Man of the Woods,” at a listening party in New York on Tuesday night.
How would you feel if you were resleeved into someone else for a day?
Monica Potter is an American actress who has a net worth of $3 million dollars.
The most influential sneaker brands in the world right now and what they’re doing to help elevate the world’s favorite footwear.
It’s that time of year again! For us, knowing that Valentine’s Day is the busiest night of the year for restaurants, we have chosen to stay home this year for Valentine’s Day and keep the home-fire burning instead.
Jeremy London's rep has confirmed the actor was arrested for domestic violence on Friday.
Selena Gomez has reportedly completed treatment for depression and anxiety.
Bill and Ted star Alex Winter has said he suffered "hellish" sexual abuse as a child actor in the Seventies, by an older man who is now dead, and became "very dysfunctional" while dealing with his trauma.
Pop star Pink has pulled out of singing the National Anthem at the Super Bowl.
It’s a boy!
If you’re looking for a female action star to replace Charlize Theron or Angelina Jolie, then you’ve come to the right place.
Actress Jamie Dornan’s sister is missing.
Christopher Nolan won the DGA Award for Outstanding Directorial Achievement in Theatrical Feature Film for Oppenheimer.
All images are copyrighted.
Coco, The Breadwinner and War for the Planet of the Apes were among the winners at this year's Annie Awards.
It was a historic night in Philadelphia.
Kim Cattrall's brother Christopher Cattrall has died at the age of 55.
Take a look at who's in the running to be this year's Christmas Number One.
Pink may have been sick when she performed the National Anthem at the Super Bowl, but it didn’t stop her sass.
All images subject to copyright.
The star of the Super Bowl halftime show wasn't Justin Timberlake.
Tom Brady's wife Gisele Bundchen consoles her husband following the Patriots' loss to the Eagles in Super Bowl LII.
In the latest episode of This Is Us, Rebecca (Mandy Moore) delivers an emotional eulogy for her late husband, Jack (Milo Ventimiglia).
This Is Us fans have been through a lot this year, and the death of Jack in Sunday's episode was no different.
Kim Zolciak Is 'So Happy' for Daughter Brielle Following Engagement: 'It's the Best Feeling Ever'
Bindi Irwin shared a moving video of her late father, Steve Irwin, during Sunday’s Super Bowl.
It's been a busy week for the Kardashian-Jenners.
It's a girl!
How do you name your first child?
It’s not every day that you hear a celebrity blaming the twin votes of Brexit and Trump for the break-up of their relationship.
Find out more about TrendolizerTM at get.trendolizer.com
The stunt coordinator on the Kill Bill movies has broken his silence on a disturbing recent allegation made by Uma Thurman regarding a crash during production that left her injured.
This site uses cookies.
It's been a busy week for the Kardashian-Jenners.
Take a look at who's in the running to be this year's Christmas Number One.
A new trailer for The Good Fight is here!
If you have been the victim of domestic abuse, here are some things you might want to consider.
Check out Busy Philipps’ reaction to receiving a KKW Kimoji fragrance kit from Kim Kardashian West.
"This last year has been about killing my ego, which has been really necessary for my career."
All images are copyrighted.
Take a look at who's in the running to be this year's Christmas Number One.
Take a look at who's in the running to be this year's Christmas Number One.
In a 2003 interview with Howard Stern, Quentin Tarantino defended Roman Polanski for having sex with a 13-year-old girl.
When I lost my job last year, and had to move out of my parents’ house and into an apartment of my own, I couldn’t stop spending.
All images are copyrighted.
All images are copyrighted.
It’s official.
.
Benioff and Weiss will write and produce a new series of Star Wars films, Disney and Lucasfilm announced Tuesday.
Michael Phelps and Nicole Johnson have welcomed their second child, a baby boy named Beckett, on Monday, February 12.
All images are copyrighted.
If you’re still searching for the perfect Galentine’s Day gift, here are options for you to use!
Norovirus can be very unpleasant but usually clears up by itself in a few days.
Barron Hilton proposed to Tessa von Walderdorff on the ferris wheel at Coney Island.
"When people say you guys have such a perfect life, I want to scream and tell them no one’s perfect."
"Big Little Lies" star Alexander Skarsgard has spoken out against the gender pay gap in Hollywood.
As a mannequin, it is your job to match the garments.
Adele and Sam Smith have quite a lot in common.
It’s one of Hollywood’s most infamous feuds.
Scott Baio will not be prosecuted for allegedly sexually assaulting Nicole Eggert during the run of "Charles in Charge," but we've learned the D.A.
After announcing that she is expecting her second child with husband Evan Spiegel, you might think the couple would be using Snapchat to chronicle the birth of their baby.
It’s not every day you get a microwave-delivered bowl of M&Ms to help you through a break-up.
The Jersey Shore gang is heading back to the beach.
A new trailer for Deadpool 2 has been released.
It’s been a busy summer for reality TV reboots.
It was the year of “Despacito” and the year of urban music.
Jack Pearson is coming back to the small screen.
It's not every day you see a member of the Royal Family dressed head-to-toe in black.
In a wide-ranging interview with New York magazine’s David Marchese, music producer Quincy Jones casually mentioned, as an aside, that he went on a date with Ivanka Trump about 12 years ago.
Will Smith has recreated his son Jaden’s music video for Icon, and it’s just as funny as it sounds.
This Is Us star Milo Ventimiglia wins $10,000 on Ellen DeGeneres’ game show.
The actress has filed for divorce from her husband of nearly 13 years, actor and musician Christopher Jarecki.
It's a girl!
“No one ‘let’ anyone win.’ People win because of their own merit.”
In the wake of the #metoo movement, Sports Illustrated Swimsuit models are using this year's issue as a way to speak out about issues that are important to them.
Police are investigating rape allegations against Backstreet Boys singer Nick Carter.
If you’ve ever wondered what it’s like to be bitten by a symbiote, then you’ve come to the right place.
The Duke of Cambridge has some words of advice for teenage girls.
If you’re a fan of The Bachelor or The Bachelorette, then you’ll know that ABC is bringing a new spin-off show to our screens.
BBC Sport takes a look at some of the key stories of the week.
It’s not every day you get to sit down with one of the biggest names in Hollywood.
See more stars who have stepped out for the most stylish time of the year in the gallery below.
All images are copyrighted.
It was a typical day for Mike Pence at the White House.
If you're a fan of pop music, you've probably heard of Halsey.
The director of “Pulp Fiction” has come under fire for comments he made about a woman who said she was raped by a film director in the 1970s.
Take a look at who's in the running to be this year's Christmas Number One.
This site uses cookies.
She’s one of the world’s most famous plus-size actresses, but Chrissy Metz isn’t afraid to wear what she wants and show off her personality in her fashion choices.
All images are copyrighted.
It’s almost time for another Sabrina revival.
All images are copyrighted.
Unicorn marshmallows are coming to Lucky Charms.
A big swirling bucket of the latest rumors, celebrity news and Hollywood gossip.
The late comedian Richard Pryor’s daughter, Rain Pryor, has made a statement saying that her late father did not have a sexual relationship with Marlon Brando.
The 13-year-old boy who took a selfie with Justin Timberlake at the Super Bowl received another surprise from the singer while visiting "The Ellen DeGeneres Show."
Andrew Garfield opens up about playing a gay man in the play Angels of America, and how he hasn’t necessarily closed the door on ever being sexually attracted to a man.
A selection of photos from around the world this week:
Ellen Pompeo has spent 14 seasons as Meredith Grey, the star of ABC's hit drama "Grey's Anatomy."
John Cena married a couple on Kathie Lee Gifford and Hoda Kotb’s Today show on Friday morning.
"I'm not interested in your one-issue voter when a president just passed."
Take a look at who's in the running to be this year's Christmas Number One.
Selena Gomez wore a vintage Selena Quintanilla t-shirt this week, and it was so cute!
Valentine’s Day can be stressful.
Lydia McLaughlin has confirmed she will not return to The Real Housewives of Orange County.
Kim Kardashian West has landed her sixth Vogue cover!
What do you get if you win an Olympic gold medal and adopt a litter of puppies?
It's been a busy week for one reality TV star.
He won an Emmy for his role as Freddy Hayes, the owner of a barbecue restaurant that Kevin Spacey’s character Frank Underwood often visited.
As Paris Fashion Week draws to a close, we take a look back at some of the best looks from the runways and street style.
A selection of photos from around the world this week:
Jill Messick, who worked at Miramax as a production executive from 1997 to 2003, also served as Rose McGowan’s manager in January 1997, which is when, McGowan has claimed, she was raped by Harvey Weinstein.
Omarosa Manigault-Stallworth is back in the Celebrity Big Brother house after being taken to the hospital for treatment.
Why is Victoria Beckham not taking part in the Spice Girls reunion tour?
Kim Zolciak-Biermann is showing the world that she’s not perfect in a makeup and wig-free selfie.
All images are copyrighted.
A selection of photos from around the world this week:
It seems Amy Schumer just confirmed her picture-perfect new relationship.
It's been a busy week for the Kardashian-Jenners.
All pictures subject to copyright.
Gigi Hadid has taken to Twitter to defend herself after being criticised for being 'too skinny' on the runway.
All images are copyrighted.
Becca Kufrin is engaged to Arie Luyendyk Jr.
The Writers Guild of America Awards took place at the Microsoft Theatre in Los Angeles on Sunday night.
The cast of All That reunited for an episode of MTV’s Wild ‘N Out.
All images are copyrighted.
John Krasinski wants to return to The Office, but he's still not sure if he'll be part of the reboot.
Serena Williams and Venus Williams compete at the Fed Cup, Serena’s first competitive match since she gave birth in September last year.
Ahead of the show's return, we caught up with the show's makeup artist, Mackenzie, to find out her go-to products for Betty's face.
Check out the full interview with Lupita Nyong’o in the February issue of Culture of Hair.
As the 2016-17 TV season heads to the finish line, NBC has declared itself the victor in the 18-49 demo race, reclaiming the crown for the third time in four years and marking the first time in five years a network finished on top in the demo without the help of either the Super Bowl or the Olympics.
All images are copyrighted.
David and Victoria Beckham have finally opened up about the cheating roomers in his 2023 Netflix docuseries, ‘Beckham’.
It's almost time for another baby!
All images are copyrighted.
"It's just about everyone their body as it matures and knowing that it's not always going to look the same and you can love yourself in all different sizes."
If you’ve ever wanted to meet the editor-in-chief of Vogue, you’ve come to the right place.
Check out the winners of the 22nd annual American Music Awards, which will take place at the Microsoft Theater in Los Angeles on Sunday, November 4.
Celebrity Big Brother chaos as 'two men break into house' and leave terrified housemates begging for help Daniel O'Reilly, Andrew Brady, Courtney Act and Jonny Mitchell were all nominated to face the chop Celebrity Big Brother chaos as 'two men break into house' and leave terrified housemates begging for help Daniel O
Drew Barrymore and Adam Sandler say they've never dated.
In a new sneak peek of Teen Mom OG, Catelynn Lowell and her husband, Tyler Baltierra, announce to their 3-year-old daughter that they are expecting a third child.
"Teen Mom" star Jenelle Evans and her husband, David Eason, have been involved in a war of words on social media over the past few days.
If you've ever wanted to know what it's like to work with one of the stars of The Real Housewives of New York City, you've come to the right place.
If you’re a fan of Vanderpump Rules, you’re probably already familiar with one of the show’s stars.
Olympic gymnast Aly Raisman appears nude in Sports Illustrated as part of a special 'empowering swimsuit issue focused on switching the narrative of the #assar movement.
A selection of photos from around the world this week:
Happy birthday, Ellen!
It's not easy getting a restraining order against a stalker.
Snowboarder Chloe Kim, who became a household name last month when she took home gold for Team USA at the Winter Olympics, said her favorite part about her overnight rise to fame has been the free food.
Check out our picks for the best fashion buys of the week.
It’s been almost six months since Khloe Kardashian gave birth to her first child, True.
Megan Morrison Outfits on The Arrangement Where to buy clothes worn by Megan Morrison (played by Christine Evangelista) on E!
The family of Bill Paxton believes his death last year was preventable, according to a wrongful death lawsuit filed by the family against the hospital and surgeon who treated the late actor.
All photographs  Arielle Kebbel.
Olympic figure skater Adam Rippon has revealed he struggled with eating and body image issues for years.
The worst is over for Lena Dunham.
Valentine’s Day is almost upon us.
She’s known for crying on The Bachelor.
All images are copyrighted.
Pop star Camila Cabello has announced dates for the “Never Be the Same Tour,” her first-ever solo headlining trek.
American Idol winner Fantasia Barrino‘s nephew was killed in a shooting Tuesday in North Carolina.
Criminal Minds star Thomas Gibson is facing a lawsuit from his former manager.
Blake Lively says it took her 14 months to lose the 61 pounds she gained during pregnancy.
It’s that time of year again.
Shonda Rhimes’ decision to leave the fold at ABC Studios for Netflix is a blow to Disney, her TV home for the past 15 years, and a blow to broadcast TV in general.
A selection of photos from around the world this week:
It's that time of year again.
It’s Valentine’s Day!
Victoria's Secret model Kelly Gale has revealed she once joined the mile high club while on an aeroplane with her boyfriend.
As New York Fashion Week draws to a close, we’re taking a look back at some of the best looks of the week so far.
New York Fashion Week is in full swing, and one of the most striking things about this year’s shows has been the number of celebrities in the front row.
At the 1998 Winter Olympics in Nagano, Japan, 15-year-old Tara Lipinski became the youngest person in figure skating history to win an Olympic gold medal.
All images are copyrighted.
Usher and his girlfriend, Jennifer Goicoechea, did in fact get married this weekend - and did so on the same day he performed for the Super Bowl halftime show.
It's that time of year again.
Comedian Amy Schumer has married her chef boyfriend, Chris Fischer.
All pictures subject to copyright.
He’s America’s most clutch performer in Winter Games history.
It's Christmas again, the time of year when British royals generally step up their round of good work and cheery public appearances before disappearing to private celebrations, far from prying eyes.
Ciara and Russell Wilson's baby girl, Sienna Princess, is adorable.
Check out the video for Trace Cyrus’ new song “Brenda” below!
A reality star has been arrested for allegedly driving under the influence of drugs and biting a police officer.
The fashion pack, also known as a belt bag, has made a comeback.
Bode Miller, (born October 12, 1977, Easton, New Hampshire, U.S.), American Alpine skier who won six Olympic medals—more than any other American skier—and won the men’s World Cup overall championship in 2005 and 2008.
Comedian Amy Schumer has married her producer boyfriend, Chris Fischer.
It’s hard to believe it’s been almost a year since Michael Cavallari died.
It looks like Ben Affleck and Lindsay Shookus are back together!
A selection of photos from around the world this week:
When the show returns for its second season, Megan will still want to keep up the ruse so she can keep her relationship with Kyle (Josh Henderson), but that relationship is going to get a lot more complicated.
Cult horror series Cult will return for a second season in the autumn, its creator has confirmed.
Jennifer Aniston and Justin Theroux have split after two and a half years of marriage.
It’s a girl!
It’s been a whirlwind two years for one Hollywood couple.
Jennifer Aniston and Justin Theroux have called it quits on their marriage after more than two years of marriage.
After two and a half years of marriage, Jennifer Aniston and Justin Theroux are calling it quits, bringing their romantic relationship to a close nearly seven years after the two first found love.
Are you happy that Cody and Jessica won the $1 million prize and will now start a family?
A selection of photos from around the world this week:
All images are copyrighted.
Black Panther stars Chadwick Boseman and Lupita Nyong’o talk chemistry, falling in love with each other, and more.
From Kim Kardashian to Angelina Jolie, celebrities' pregnancies are on display on red carpets, the streets of New York and L.A., and in their own pregnancy shots.
The stars of next month's Academy Awards have been announced.
We'd like to welcome your comments on this story.
Check out Kanye West's Valentine's Day takeover of Instagram.
It’s one of the most talked-about topics in the world of reality TV.
Tomb Raider star Alicia Vikander talks about how she got into shape to play Lara Croft in the new video game.
Brad Pitt and Jennifer Aniston are back in touch, according to reports.
How do you pay off $16 million in debt?
A selection of photos from around the world this week:
How to style T-shirts and jeans for an updated look.
A former child actor has been charged with robbing a jewellery store at knifepoint, RadarOnline.com has learned.
Jennifer Lawrence says she'd use her spy skills to find out what's going on between Taylor Swift and Karlie Kloss.
Take a look at who's in the running to be this year's Christmas Number One.
It’s official!
Britney Spears shaved her head at Esther’s Haircutting Studio in Tarzana, California, on February 16, 2007.
"Tired eyes", "Nursing in a dressing room", "Nursing in a fitting room", "Nursing in a fitting room", "Nursing in a fitting room", "Nursing in a fitting room", "Nursing in a fitting room", "Nursing in a fitting room", "
Pop star Justin Bieber will be dunking for Team Lakers going up against Team Clippers in the NBA Celebrity All-Star Game.
Sally Field can add one more credit to her illustrious career - matchmaker.
It’s that time of year again!
Salma Hayek has a new look!
All images are copyrighted.
One of Princess Diana's most iconic outfits is going up for auction.
She's already the most decorated female skier of all time.
Plastic surgeons are able to perform a mommy makeover to address sagging breasts, loose abdominal muscles and skin, and excess fat in the abdomen, hips, and flanks.
US figure skater Adam Rippon will not take a job with NBC as a correspondent for the rest of the Winter Olympics, USA Today’s Christine Brennan reported on Sunday.
All hail, Chadwick Boseman!
Fergie’s National Anthem performance at the NBA All-Star Game has been called the worst ever.
Kim Kardashian West, Kourtney Kardashian and Kendall Jenner are taking in the snowy sights of Utah and spending some quality time together on the slopes this weekend.
All images are copyrighted.
The Duke and Duchess of Sussex have announced that they are engaged to be married.
The Black Eyed Peas singer says her version of the national anthem did not strike the intended tone.
The Duke and Duchess of Sussex have announced that they are engaged to be married.
Comedian Colin Quinn is recovering after suffering a heart attack last week.
Grey’s Anatomy actress Rebecca Gayheart has filed for divorce from her husband Eric Dane.
All images are copyrighted.
Russell Tovey has split from his rugby player fiance Steve Brockman man just months after he confirmed they were engaged.
If you’re a fan of drama, then you’re in for a treat this season.
All images are copyrighted.
As part of her role as a goodwill ambassador for the United Nations Children’s Fund (UNICEF), tennis star Serena Williams reflects on the challenges faced by black women during pregnancy and childbirth.
Take a look at who's in the running to be this year's Christmas Number One.
Real Housewives of Los Angeles star Lisa Rinna has come to the defence of fellow cast member Lisa Vanderpump.
In Julian Schnabel’s At Eternity’s Gate, Oscar Isaac plays Vincent van Gogh, who lops off his ear with a razor.
Justin Bieber took Selena Gomez to his dad’s wedding last night, and it looks like they had a blast!
A selection of photos from around the world this week:
It's a sad day in Hollywood.
All images are copyrighted.
Fergie's national anthem performance at the NBA All-Star game has been mocked by Wendy Williams.
The Losers’ Club has a new member.
Take a look at who's in the running to be this year's Christmas Number One.
All images are copyrighted.
It's almost time for the royal wedding!
It’s been a record-breaking week at the box office.
A selection of photos from around the world this week:
Ever wondered what it’s like to be in a relationship with a reality TV star?
The 2018 Winter Olympics in South Korea have come to an end.
On this week’s episode of The Real Housewives of Beverly Hills, the group heads to New York City for a fashion show.
Becca Kufrin has been named the new Bachelorette for the 14th season of "The Bachelor."
It's that time of year again.
The Washington Post's Eric Deggans explains why the revival of "Roseanne" didn't explore the political implications of Roseanne Conner's support for Donald Trump.
In a wide-ranging interview with BuzzFeed, the Oscar-winning actress, who has been heavily involved with the Time’s Up initiative that combats sexual harassment in workplaces across industries, acknowledged a 2009 petition she signed in support of Roman Polanski, the European filmmaker who was convicted of raping a 13-year
The star of Mama June: From Not to Hot has taken to social media to defend herself.
Check out the full list of winners below.
In its third season, Syfy series “The Magicians” is embarking upon a musical episode.
It’s not every day you get to celebrate your 30th birthday with your besties.
The winners of this year's Emmy Awards have used their acceptance speeches to raise awareness about social issues.
Good Will Hunting co-star Minnie Driver has called out Matt Damon for his comments about sexual misconduct.
Farrah Abraham is suing Viacom for $5 million, claiming she was fired from Teen Mom because she was working in the adult entertainment industry.
Ed Sheeran has confirmed that he is engaged to his girlfriend, Cherry Seaborn.
Summer love is sure to happen fast as the hit series Bachelor in Paradise returns for Season 5! Summer love is sure to happen fast as the hit series Bachelor in Paradise returns for Season 5!
It's been a rough few months for one country music superstar and her husband.
It’s almost time for the Bachelor Winter Games to come to an end!
All images are copyrighted.
Check out Lala Kent’s bizarre claim that Tupac Shakur took over her body in the video above.
New Horizons PyeongChang's vision for the 2018 Games was to offer the Olympic Movement and the world of winter sports New Horizons - a legacy of new growth and new potential never seen before.
From bespoke perfumes to drugstore mascara, Cindy Crawford spills her beauty routine.
Kendra Wilkinson and Hank Baskett are fighting for their marriage again.
All images are copyrighted.
Clare Crawley and Benoit Beauséjour-Savard are engaged.
All images are copyrighted.
She's one of America's most famous young athletes, and now she's also one of its most famous photobombers.
It’s been a busy week in the world of pop culture, with the Brit Awards, Liam Gallagher and Cheryl all in the news.
It’s not every day you get to meet the Duke and Duchess of Cambridge, but that’s exactly what happened on Sunday night.
Kim Cattrall and Sarah Jessica Parker on the set of Sex and the City.
Find out more about TrendolizerTM at get.trendolizer.com
The Flash is back!
In a clip from Thursday’s Bachelor Winter Games reunion show, Clare Crawley tells Chris Harrison that even though things didn’t work out with Benoit Beauséjour-Savard or Christian Rauch during the series, she found love as soon as she left Vermont and headed back home.
Reese Witherspoon and Ellen DeGeneres love Oprah Winfrey, just like the rest of us.
The 88th Academy Awards will take place at the Dolby Theatre in Los Angeles, USA, on Sunday, March 10, 2024.
A big swirling bucket of the latest rumors, celebrity news and Hollywood gossip.
Take a look at who's in the running to be this year's Christmas Number One.
He's the most hated man in America.
It's been a long time coming.
A selection of photos from around the world this week:
All pictures subject to copyright.
As the world mourns the loss of one of hip-hop's most influential artists, BBC News takes a look back at his life and career.
Cult horror series Cult will return for a second season in the autumn, its creator has confirmed.
The use of gold in skin care products is on the rise.
All images are copyrighted.
Real Husbands of Hollywood star Tisha Campbell-Martin has filed for divorce from husband Duane Martin.
A selection of photos from around the world this week:
The 88th Academy Awards will take place at the Dolby Theatre in Los Angeles, USA, on Sunday, March 10, 2024.
Lorde says she and Jack Antonoff are not dating.
Health and fitness expert Bob Harper shares the five ways he has transformed his health since suffering a near-fatal heart attack last year.
A look at some of the quirkier snippets from the news this week:
"I'll miss you every day but I'll take those memories with me everywhere I go."
McDonald's is bringing back some of its strangest products.
"No one can take women seriously on any choices that they make, especially if they’re unique to them and they don’t play into the way we think women should get married."
Take a look at who's in the running to be this year's Christmas Number One.
It's not every day you get a tweet from Kim Kardashian and a tweet from This Is Us' Justin Hartley.
All pictures subject to copyright.
Emily Ratajkowski surprised us on Friday, February 23, when she shared on social media that she had just married her new boyfriend, Sebastian Bear-McClard.
All pictures subject to copyright.
Honey Boo Boo's dad Sugar Bear has finally found out if he is her father.
Britney Spears and Kevin Federline have reportedly reached an agreement over child support.
A selection of photos from around the world this week:
It's been a busy few weeks for the Kardashian-Jenner clan.
All images are copyrighted.
Chris Pratt and his 5-year-old son Jack with ex Anna Faris were all smiles as they watched the action unfold at the Monster Jam celebrity event at Anaheim’s Angel Stadium in California on Saturday.
It's a girl!
All images are copyrighted.
Emily Ratajkowski and Sebastian Bear-McClard are married!
It's that time of year again.
Justin Theroux breaks his social media silence over the weekend for the first time since announcing his separation from Jennifer Aniston.
Famed director and actor Kevin Smith is back home, again, days after suffering a massive heart attack, which doctors told him he could have died from.
All images subject to copyright.
The annual African-American Film Festival (ABFF) awards took place on Sunday in Los Angeles.
The 88th Academy Awards will take place at the Dolby Theatre in Los Angeles, USA, on Sunday, March 10, 2024.
Fifty Shades Freed star Brant Daugherty is getting hitched!
It's been months since Carrie Underwood took a hard fall at her Nashville home, and the Grammy winner has been extra creative when it comes to anyone seeing her face. It's been months since Carrie Underwood took a hard fall at her Nashville home, and the Grammy winner has been extra creative when it comes
Bill Cosby’s daughter Ensa has died at the age of 44.
The new season of NBC’s singing competition show “The Voice” kicks off on Tuesday, and the show’s producers are promising some changes to the format.
She’s one of the most famous and successful women in the world and many think her current lifestyle makes her fit to be President of the US someday.
If you’re going through a breakup, there’s a good chance you’ve seen a breakup movie.
The actor has filed for joint legal and physical custody of the pair’s two children.
In case you missed it, here's a round-up of some of the best celebrity news stories over the years.
The "Real Housewives of Atlanta" star says she got a gun for her 21st birthday because she's scared of her own shadow.
It's not every day you get to share your first Auntie Anne's pretzel with a friend.
When it comes to the Oscars, it’s all about the couples!
It's the biggest night in the world of film, and Hollywood's biggest stars are out in force for the 88th Academy Awards.
A selection of photos from around the world this week:
It’s one of the biggest feuds in reality TV history.
All images subject to copyright.
She’s talking about him on 60 Minutes, she’s talking about him on Oprah, and now she’s talking about him on Stephen Colbert.
Kim Kardashian reveals what she hates most about her siblings in an interview with Vogue India.
All images are copyrighted.
The Spice Girls will not be performing at Prince Harry and Meghan Markle's royal wedding, according to reports.
All images are copyrighted.
All pictures subject to copyright.
All images are copyrighted.
Two of Barbra Streisand's new dogs are clones of her late dog, Samantha.
It’s been a year since Kim Kardashian West was robbed at gunpoint in Paris.
"This person who has accused me of horrible things tried to buy her silence by asking for money on multiple occasions--I refused."
Enrique Iglesias and Anna Kournikova are celebrating 20 years together.
It’s official: Taylor Swift and Joe Alwyn have broken up.
Miranda Lambert and Anderson East have broken up after more than two years together, Us Weekly reports.
From duets to daddy duty to wearing one another's feet, here are a few of the weirdest things about this pairing.
Allison Janney won an Oscar for her performance in I, Tonya.
Pearl Jam frontman Eddie Vedder performed a moving version of Tom Petty and the Heartbreakers' "Room at the Top" during the "In Memoriam" segment of the 2018 Oscars.
Check out the new trailer for Pitch Perfect 3 below.
If you’ve seen the new Guardians of the Galaxy movie, you might have noticed a change in one of the main characters.
There is a snowman’s chance in hell that Disney will give Elsa a girlfriend in Frozen 2.
All images are copyrighted.
Lisa Marie Presley was the only child born to Elvis Presley.
Find out more about TrendolizerTM at get.trendolizer.com
It’s one of the most talked-about family feuds in TV history.
Find out more at:
ABC’s senior VP of alternative series, specials, and late-night programming talks to Variety about filming the breakup completely unedited, plus choosing to air the footage completely unedited.
As Bobby Brown prepares for the release of his first solo album in six years, the singer tells Rolling Stone the pain remains even as the future looks optimistic.
The No Doubt singer has put her Beverly Hills home back on the market for just under $40 million.
All images are copyrighted.
It’s that time of year again when Hollywood’s biggest stars hit the red carpet for the Academy Awards.
When Oprah gave out wisdom like free cars, I didn't even see her.
"Only Time Will Tell" - Jeff Probst, Kellyn Bechtold, Bradley Kleihege, and Morgan Ricke on the third episode of Survivor: Ghost Island, airing Wednesday, March 7 (8:00-9:00 PM, ET/PT) on the CBS Television Network.
All images are copyrighted.
Brad Pitt is joining Leonardo DiCaprio in Quentin Tarantino’s Manson movie, which will be titled “Once Upon a Time in Hollywood.”
Donna Summer's estate accuses Kanye West of illegally using '70s song Donna Summer's estate accuses Kanye West of illegally using '70s song
Ashley Judd talks candidly with Salma Hayek about finding her courage and raising her voice, and about what the future holds for herself and the movement with which she is a leading voice.
Becca Kufrin has been named the new Bachelorette for the 14th season of "The Bachelor."
She’s the latest celebrity to give birth this year.
It’s a boy!
A selection of photos from around the world this week:
The 89th Academy Awards will take place on Sunday, 22 February at the Dolby Theatre in Los Angeles.
Lauren Burnham and Arie Luyendyk Jr.
It's not every day you get to hear your friend say she loves you because of your husband.
Pop star Nick Jonas is reportedly seeing a woman.
It was the battle of the Chicagoans in the Top Chef season 15 finale.
John Krasinski is crazy about his wife and A Quiet Place costar Emily Blunt.
Farrah Abraham has called it quits with boyfriend Aden Stay.
Take a look at who's in the running to be this year's Christmas Number One.
Andy Cohen surprised Real Housewives of New York City star Luann de Lesseps with a dinner party on Watch What Happens Live.
She joked that on her tombstone, it will say “Perky No More.”
Sam Rockwell dedicated his Oscar win to his “old buddy, Phil Hoffman.”
Take a look at who's in the running to be this year's Christmas Number One.
The 88th Academy Awards will take place at the Dolby Theatre in Los Angeles, USA, on Sunday, March 10, 2024.
For the third year in a row, the Italian fashion house, Acqua di Parma, is taking part in the International Beach Fashion Show (IBF) in Miami, USA.
The red carpet at this year’s Oscars is expected to be dominated by two political issues: gun violence and sexual harassment.
It's been an extraordinary year for the red carpet.
It's been a busy week for the Spelling family.
All images are copyrighted.
"Friends" stars Courteney Cox, Lisa Kudrow and Jennifer Aniston have revealed how they keep in touch.
It's that time of year again.
Call Me by Your Name and Get Out were the big winners at the Independent Spirit Awards.
Happy 19th birthday Brooklyn Beckham!
A look back at some of the key talking points from Sunday's 88th Academy Awards.
One of Princess Diana's most iconic outfits is going up for auction.
All images are copyrighted.
The host of E!’s pre-Oscars red carpet show got a little sticky during a segment with chef Wolfgang Puck, who has been responsible for feeding the stars at the Governors Ball, the official post-Oscars celebration, for over 20 years.
If you see any funny business with the envelopes at this year’s Oscars, it’ll be exactly that funny business, a joke worked up by host Jimmy Kimmel’s team to poke fun at the fiasco that ended last year’s ceremony.
Sisterhood of the Pants star Amber Tamblyn is looking for the driver she claims almost hit her and her 1-year-old daughter Marlow Alice as they attempted to cross the street in New York City.
A selection of photos from around the world this week:
All images are copyrighted.
"It's been hanging in my closet," Rita Moreno told Ryan Seacrest during E!'s red carpet coverage Sunday night.
He’s already won five NBA titles, two Olympic gold medals and an NBA MVP honor.
Sam Rockwell surprised his girlfriend Leslie Bibb with a custom pair of cufflinks on the Oscars red carpet.
A group of Hollywood A-listers surprised the audience at the Oscars with a surprise screening of “A Wrinkle in Time.”
The winners of this year's Academy Awards will be announced on Sunday, March 4, at the Dolby Theatre in Hollywood.
He is the first black screenwriter to win an award in this category.
One of Princess Diana's most iconic outfits is going up for auction.
All pictures subject to copyright.
It's that time of year again, when the best supporting actress nominees are announced.
A Fuller House character has come out as bisexual!
The actress, who played fan- ADA Alex Cabot in more than 90 episodes of SVU, will guest-star in an episode slated to air in April, EW has learned.
In the latest issue of PEOPLE, Scandal star Bellamy Young explains why she changed her name and auditioned for the role of First Lady Mellie Grant.
A big swirling bucket of the latest rumors, celebrity news and Hollywood gossip.
As the dust settles from Sunday night’s Academy Awards, here’s a look back at some of the best and worst moments from the 89th Academy Awards.
Meryl Streep isn’t actually to blame for Jodie Foster needing crutches at the Oscars on Sunday night, but a ski accident is.
He's the man who wrote the Oscar-winning song "Remember Me."
If you want to know how to get the most out of your hair, this is the place to be.
The 90th Academy Awards will start an hour earlier this year.
It's not every day you get to swap your high heels for slippers at the Oscars, but that's exactly what happened on Sunday night.
Insecure creator Issa Rae will host the Council of Fashion Designers of America Awards in June.
If you’re a fan of reality TV, you’ll know that divorce can be hard to watch.
It’s no secret that The Bachelor star Arie Luyendyk is a big fan of sneaky tactics.
It’s been a roller-coaster ride of emotions for Arie Luyendyk Jr.
All images are copyrighted.
Pink, Fall Out Boy and Nick Jonas read Mean Tweets on Jimmy Kimmel Live!
It's time for the Kardashian/Jenner family to start naming their children after their famous relatives.
Gregor Samsa's The Big Oxmox is one of the most famous books in the history of literature.
Becca Kufrin got engaged to Garrett Yrigoyen on the season finale of "The Bachelorette."
It’s been more than three decades, and Bon Jovi has sure held on to what they’ve got.
Guns N' Roses frontman Tommy Lee has been taken to the hospital after allegedly being assaulted by his son.
The Bachelor star Arie Luyendyk Jr.
Lauren Burnham and Arie Luyendyk Jr.
You’re the Bachelor, you’re the Bachelorette, and now you’re the Bachelor!
Paris Jackson in "Gringo."
"This is a matter of life and death."
Hoda Kotb, the newly-christened co-anchor of NBC’s “Today,” says she’s not making Matt Lauer money.
Arie Luyendyk Jr.
.
Camila Cabello gives fans a look at some of the special moments that have led up to the release of her much-anticipated solo album in her new “Never Be the Same” video.
It’s one of the biggest Celebrity Big Brother controversies yet!
All photographs are copyrighted.
It’s been a long time coming.
Ellen Pompeo has spent 14 seasons as Meredith Grey, the star of ABC's hit drama "Grey's Anatomy."
Find out more about TrendolizerTM at get.trendolizer.com
Mark Hamill has received a star on the Hollywood Walk of Fame, which has been dubbed #JediDay. Mark Hamill, the legendary actor who portrayed Luke Skywalker in the Star Wars saga -- and whose incredible body of work spans movies, TV, theatre, video games, and voice-over -- received his star
"I will never talk to Tommy again before he is sober and in his right mind."
Gregor Samsa's The Big Oxmox is one of the most famous books in the history of literature.
All images are copyrighted.
It’s not easy being a reality TV star.
If you're anything like us, you've probably shopped at Target at some point in your life. "Even if we didn't need anything, Target always knew what was best for us and it never failed to send us home without some sort of delicious treat, household good, or one of those
Serena Williams has won her first match since giving birth to her daughter, Alexis Olympia Ohanian Jr.
New mom Mindy Kaling stopped by The Late Show on Thursday to promote A Wrinkle in Time, though the conversation quickly turned to the topic of her two-month-old daughter Katherine. New mom Mindy Kaling stopped by The Late Show on Thursday to promote A Wrinkle in Time, though the conversation quickly turned to
Hugh Grant and Anna Eberstein are celebrating the birth of their third child.
The Obamas are reportedly in talks with Netflix about producing shows for the streaming service.
After months of speculation, two of Grey’s Anatomy’s most beloved characters finally found love in the season 14 finale.
The Vanderpump Rules star says she's "more self-aware, self-deprecating, and I feel like I'm me again for the first time in a while."
A selection of photos from around the world this week:
Find out more about TrendolizerTM at get.trendolizer.com
It's been a long time coming.
Each year, Travel + Leisure readers vote for the world's best hotels, resorts, cities, islands, cruise ships, spas, airlines, and more.
Kelly Ripa tried her hand at singing in a new segment for Live with Kelly and Ryan where she tried her hand at becoming the next Carrie Underwood or Kelly Clarkson.
"This Is Us" star Sterling K. Brown is set to host "Saturday Night Live" on March 10.
The night 56-year-old actress Heather Locklear was arrested on suspicion of felony domestic battery and three counts of battery on a police officer, she told police her boyfriend Chris Heisser had “tried to kill her.”
It’s not every day you see a royal wearing a white wrap coat, but that’s exactly what Meghan Markle did on Monday.
Find out more about TrendolizerTM at get.trendolizer.com
Happy Days star Scott Baio's wife has been diagnosed with a brain disease.
Netflix is investigating allegations of sexual harassment against the Duffer Brothers.
It's been 21 years since Buffy the Vampire Slayer premiered, and the hit cult series still remains dear to our hearts.
Jenna Dewan Tatum hits the red carpet at the 2018 iHeartRadio Music Awards held at The Forum on Sunday (March 11) in Los Angeles.

A selection of photos from around the world this week:
Gregor Samsa's The Big Oxmox is one of the most famous books in the history of literature.
Watch the video for Bri Bagwell's latest single, 'The Rescue.'
Taylor Swift's new video for "Delicate" has a lot of easter eggs.
All images are copyrighted.
After months of anticipation, the couple tied the knot on November 11 at the estate of the bride's late grandfather Barron Hilton.
The Hills star Dieter Schmitz and his wife Isabell Hiebl have welcomed their first child, son Nico Josef Schmitz.
As the original, animated version of the film unspooled at the Hollywood Bowl Friday night in a combination of screening and all-star live musical performance, it was clear that a few of the moral lessons imparted in 1991 seem slightly out of step with the mores of 2018.
All images are copyrighted.
All images are copyrighted.
It’s been a long time coming.
New photos from Fantastic Beasts: The Crimes of Grindelwald have been released, giving us a better look at Jude Law as Albus Dumbledore and Johnny Depp as Gellert Grindelwald.
On Monday night’s episode of The Bachelorette, Becca Kufrin became the first contestant to be eliminated from the series.
The CW has renewed Crazy Ex-Girlfriend for a fourth season, according to its star and co-creator, Rachel Bloom.
Becca Kufrin has been named the new Bachelorette for the 14th season of "The Bachelor."
In our series of letters from African-American journalists, novelist and writer Ta-Nehisi Coates reflects on the importance of female friendships in literature.
Stephen Colbert got into a beer-drinking contest with Tom Brady on Monday's The Late Show.
They said "I do" again!
It's been 10 years since the series finale of Buffy the Vampire Slayer.
A Wrinkle in Time stars Reese Witherspoon, Mindy Kaling, Oprah Winfrey and Storm Reid performed a live skit on The Late Late Show with James Corden.
“I’ve got to look at my failures in the face for a while.”
Craig Mack, the rapper who had the first hit on P. Diddy’s iconic hip-hop label Bad Boy Records, died on Monday. But his energy comes from somewhere else.” Mack, born in the Bronx in 1970, helped make Bad Boy Records synonymous with New York hip-hop, kickstarting the label
A selection of photos from around the world this week:
All images are copyrighted.
Arie Luyendyk Jr.
It’s that time of year again.
Artificial intelligence (AI) has come a long way in the past few years.
A selection of photos from around the world this week:
It’s been a long time coming.
Zayn Malik and Gigi Hadid have called off their engagement after two years together.
As he prepares to release his first solo album, former One Direction star Zayn Malik reflects on his departure from the boy band.
All images are copyrighted.
The first trailer for Shailene Woodley and Sam Claflin's new film, Adrift, is here.
In the latest issue of Vogue, Kendall Jenner is ready to open up.
A selection of photos from around the world this week:
Ciara and her husband, Future, are expecting their first child together.
Jessica Capshaw is leaving Grey's Anatomy at the end of the season, but what will she do next?
Some celebrities are notoriously inconsiderate partners that you wouldn't want to date.
All images are copyrighted.
This site uses cookies.
Becca Kufrin has revealed her number one celebrity crush: Michael Strahan.
Jennifer Lopez says she and Alex Rodriguez are not rushing to get married.
The X-Files writer Karen Nielsen talks about writing the cult drama’s penultimate episode.
Trixie Mattel has been crowned the winner of RuPaul’s Drag Race All Stars 3.
Burt Reynolds' ex-girlfriend Sally Field has paid tribute to the actor, calling him "the love of my life."
"I think it is so much harder to go through it this way, because you are not really in control."
Former Bachelor star Luke Pell has found love again!
It’s been a busy few months for the Royal Family.
Jennifer Lopez graces the April cover of Harper’s BAZAAR and opens up about her relationship with Alex Rodriguez.
It's not easy being a beauty editor.
Pancreatic cancer is one of the most common types of cancer in the United States.
It Woman!
A Dance Moms star is getting out early from prison.
Donald Trump's wife has filed for divorce from the president's son.
It’s that time of year again.
Kate Bosworth was all sparkles in a gold Alexandre Vauthier long-sleeve dress with a high slit and blue flower pinned to her shoulder. The 34-year-old actress had her hair slicked back and wore a bold red lip, accessorizing her stunning look with a $315,000 13.28 carat Norman Silverman
Chelsea Houska and Cole DeBoer are expecting their second child together.
We Should Listen to Palestinians, Not Selena Gomez (Or Other Cele...
It’s time for a change!
It’s not every day you get to say you’re in love!
A video of alleged abuse of a dog on the set of Matthew Morrison's new movie has surfaced and the "Glee" alum says he is heartbroken by the footage and has called the producers to express his outrage.
It was a busy day for one of President Donald Trump’s sons.
RuPaul’s Drag Race All Stars: Trixie Mattel, Morgan McMichaels, and Shangela Laquifa Wadley.
It's that time of year again.
BBC Sport takes a look at some of the key statistics behind the Premier League title race.
The Tomb Raider actress opened up about the surprise party her friends planned before her October wedding to Michael Fassbender in the April issue of Marie Claire.
RuPaul Andre Charles Hollywood Chamber of Commerce Honors Rupaul with Star on the Hollywood Walk of Fame Watch the star ceremony as the Hollywood Chamber unveils the star for RuPaul below.
.
It's almost time for Clarissa Explains It All to return to TV.
If you're concerned about someone who may be thinking of taking their own life, there are a number of support services available.
Zayn Malik shows off a massive rose tattoo on the back of his head, with the stem reaching down his neck.
The Duchess of Cambridge famously rocked a dark blue Issa wrap dress back in 2010 to announce her engagement to Prince William, and it sold out in a flash afterward.
She's one of the most famous supermodels in the world, and she's also one of the most famous people in the world.
Zac Efron and Dylan Efron are two of Hollywood’s most famous brothers.
Singer Barbra Streisand says she has never felt sexually harassed in Hollywood.
From Kim Kardashian to Angelina Jolie, celebrities' pregnancies are on display on red carpets, the streets of New York and L.A., and in their own pregnancy shots.
Beyoncé and Jay-Z's daughter stole the show at an art gala in Los Angeles on Saturday night.
She's six years sober.
A big swirling bucket of the latest rumors, celebrity news and Hollywood gossip.
It's back!
The death of a Maroon 5 manager has been ruled a suicide.
It's that time of year again... face painting.
On Sunday night, Allison Janney won her first Oscar for her role in I, Tonya.
The first image of Renée Zellweger as Judy Garland has been released.
Pop group Fifth Harmony is taking a break.
A selection of photos from around the world this week:
From wedding crashing to champagne delivery.
How to watch Luis Miguel, La Serie on Netflix in the U.S.
One of Hollywood’s most famous actors took his own life, according to a new report.
If you’re a fan of denim and pop culture, you’re in for a treat.
Prince Harry and Meghan Markle's wedding cake is a lemon elderflower cake covered in buttercream and decorated with fresh flowers.
Are you ready for another season of The Bachelor?
Rose McGowan has wished Harvey Weinstein a happy birthday in a video message.
It’s a girl!
All images are copyrighted.
It’s been 12 years since the very first winner was crowned.
Pop groups going on hiatus is kind of like when your married friends say they’re doing a trial separation: Chances are they’re done, but without making it official, they can leave the door open to a potential reconciliation.
WWE superstar Daniel Bryan has been medically cleared to return to action.
Black Panther is ruling Wakanda, the global box office and as of Tuesday, he is also the king of Twitter.
In the months since President Donald Trump took office, his eldest son, Donald Trump Jr., has become one of his father’s most vocal supporters.
Blake Shelton and Gwen Stefani are the greatest!
Kimmel enlisted the help of Katie Couric to undergo his first colonoscopy procedure on Tuesday’s episode of Jimmy Kimmel Live!
We may not have known him for long, but he certainly made an impact on us dear friend.
Stranger Things stars Millie Bobby Brown and Gaten Matarazzo have offered to host a party for a fan who was ignored at his birthday party.
The world's longest-reigning living monarch will attend the concert, known as "The Queen's Birthday Party," along with other members of the royal family. The world's longest-reigning living monarch will attend the concert, known as "The Queen's Birthday Party," along
A nor’easter slamming the tri-state Wednesday has caused crashes, closures and now the postponement of at least two major concerts in the area.
She plays a woman who struggles with her body image in This Is Us, but how much do you know about Chrissy Metz's real-life struggles?
As the Kardashian-Jenner clan prepares for the arrival of their first child, the Keeping Up With the Kardashians star has revealed that she’s six months pregnant.
Antonio Banderas seems to be completely devoid of eyebrows.
In an interview with Stephen Colbert Tuesday, the two-time Oscar winner updated fans on her father’s health, sharing that he’s doing well after undergoing a lung transplant.
All images are copyrighted.
"Saturday Night Live" star Pete Davidson gets some fashion advice from "Queer Eye" star Tan France.
Find out more about TrendolizerTM at get.trendolizer.com
It's official!
Singer Céline Dion has cancelled two concerts in Las Vegas due to an ear condition that causes hearing irregularities.
Men's Health picks some of the best fashion, beauty, and lifestyle products out there. Kevin Smith says he lost 17 pounds in nine days on Penn Jillette's potato-heavy diet The Clerks director suffered a near-fatal heart attack in February Here's what nutritionists have to say about the
It’s not easy being in a long-term relationship.
Rod Stewart has criticised Elton John's retirement tour and branded it a "dishonest" ploy to make money.
Ellen DeGeneres and "Grey's Anatomy" star Ellen Pompeo discuss equal pay for women in Hollywood.
Ryan Reynolds has revealed that he and Green Lantern co-star Ryan Reynolds are both big fans of the Sisterhood of the Pants films.
The Duke and Duchess of Cambridge are on a two-day visit to London to celebrate the upcoming Commonwealth Games.
"While it's hard to say goodbye, we celebrate the legacy of joy and laughter he brought to millions of children around the world as Bozo the Clown on TV and as a UNICEF Ambassador and later as host of Channel 5's Great Entertainment and Boston's Man About Town," Avruch's
All images are copyrighted.
All images are copyrighted.
The new season of The Real Housewives of Orange County is just a few weeks away, but we already have a sneak peek of what's to come.
It's all about the make-up! Pink's six-year-old daughter Willow has given her first ever makeup tutorial and it's too cute for words.
All images are copyrighted.
It’s been a busy few months for the Jolie-Pitt family, with the release of Maleficent 2 and the birth of twins Knox and Vivienne.
Cate Blanchett says she will not work with Woody Allen again if sexual abuse allegations against the director are reopened.
The trial of a former Disney Channel star charged with driving under the influence (DUI) has been postponed.
It’s been seven years since Teddy Forstmann died.
How much is Kylie Jenner worth?
"I have never been abusive or violent in any way in my relations with women."
Take a look at who's in the running to be this year's Christmas Number One.
Amber Rose and 21 Savage have unfollowed each other on Instagram.
Kate Bosworth uses primrose oil to curb her hormonal acne.
It seems Paris Jackson and Cara Delevingne are taking their relationship to the next level!
John Cena and thousands of gallons of slime on stage at once, you know it’s going to be messy.
It’s time to bust out the yogurt guacamole and misshapen pirate donuts, because two of Netflix’s best new food-related shows, Queer Eye and Nailed It, are getting picked up for second seasons.
Justin Bieber was spotted hanging out with model Baskin Champion, whose sister is dating Bieber’s best friend Patrick Schwarzenegger.
Do not be late for this dance, Friday night time turned out to be a particular night time for the Bravo star who attended her boyfriend’s faculty promenade.
Karrueche Tran is one of the most famous models in the world.
Krupa showed off her engagement ring on social media on Sunday.
Former TV personality Star Jones has married her fiancé Ricardo Lugo.
Photos from Emma Slater and Sasha Farber’s wedding day.
All images are copyrighted.
All images subject to copyright. Kylie Jenner Shares Sweet Black-and-White Pics of Herself With Daughter Stormi The "Keeping Up With the Kardashians" star previously revealed that she gained 40 pounds during her pregnancy with baby Stormi
All images subject to copyright.
The former Real Housewives of Orange County star has married girlfriend Christy Groves in front of both of their families in Indiana.
In less than two months, she will marry Prince Harry and receive a royal title of her own.
Stormy Daniels says she had an affair with Donald Trump in 2006, but the president denies it.
It's no secret that Meghan Markle is a big fan of exercise.
The world’s most famous love story is over.
Mark Burnett and Roma Downey’s son is on the mend following his recent hospital stay.
Check out the artwork for Cardi B’s debut album, Invasion of Privacy, below.
Robin Thicke Shares Sweet Photo Of Son Meeting Newborn Daughter Robin Thicke is one proud father.
All images subject to copyright.
All images subject to copyright.
Supermodel Gisele Bndchen has revealed that she is a fan of Dunkin’s Munchkins.
The Prince of Wales and the Duchess of Cornwall have announced that they are expecting their second child.
She’s one of the most famous female race drivers in the world, and now she’s turning 36.
All images are copyrighted.
A new allegation has been made against R. Kelly.
If you’ve ever wanted to know what it would be like to star in a film where the main character wore tracksuits, you’ve come to the right place.
All images are copyrighted.
“Black-ish” and “Splitting Up Together” both came down from last week’s gains but were still the top shows in the key demo on Tuesday night.
"America's Next Top Model" host Tyra Banks has revealed she had a nose job.
It's not every day you get to share your own script with the world.
Groupon customers are boycotting the online marketplace after a series of listings for winter boots used a racial slur to describe the color of the shoe.
Eminem has released his latest music video.
Comedian Mike Myers’s Soho penthouse has finally gone into contract three years after he first listed it on the market, 6sqft reports.
Kate and Toby on NBC’s “This Is Us” are finally about to become parents.
Jennifer Aniston has posted a picture of herself with a "handsome, older-looking gentleman" on her Instagram page.
All images are copyrighted.
It’s that time of year again!
The world's most famous couple just bought their first home together.
All images are copyrighted.
It's not every day you see a rock star pull a stunt like this, but that's exactly what G-Eazy did on the latest episode of The Exes.
It's not every day you get a call from the president of the United States.
All images are copyrighted.
It’s all about the money!
It’s almost time for one of TV’s most beloved shows to come to an end.
All images are copyrighted.
Prince Philip, Queen Elizabeth II's 96-year-old husband, missed an annual pre-Easter church service Thursday, setting off worry about his health, according to British media reports.
Prince Harry and Meghan Markle come to the union with healthy bank accounts of their own.
Erika Jayne may be one of the stars of The Real Housewives of Beverly Hills, but she’s not afraid to speak her mind.
All photographs  Arie Luyendyk Jr.
Sophia Bush has come to the defence of one of her former One Tree Hill co-stars.
It sounds like Scott Disick is having a blast with his 17-year-old girlfriend.
While we may not ever know what Erika Jayne eats in a day - though we suspect it's a steady diet of pink glitter - Erika is willing to spill the exact details of her daily diet.
To celebrate the 30th anniversary of Tim Burton’s classic horror film Beetlejuice, The Hollywood Reporter takes a look back at what the cast has been up to in the years since, to see how they’ve “jump(ed) in the line” in other projects.
He’s one of the most famous singers in the world, but it turns out he’s not afraid of controversy.
Dawson’s Creek fans finally got a cast reunion when Entertainment Weekly gathered some members of the original season - including Katie Holmes, Joshua Jackson, James Van Der Beek and Michelle Williams - for a 20th anniversary shoot.
Maci Bookout was granted a two-year order of protection against ex-boyfriend Ryan Edwards after she claimed he threatened to hurt her and take their son.
A Hollywood actor is opening up about an alleged assault.
Kim Kardashian’s friend Todd Kraines is warning others about the dangers of April Fools’ pranks.
A Series Of Unfortunate Events has a great many villains and enemies lurking within it, but none more menacing or inventive than Count Olaf. A Series Of Unfortunate Events has a great many villains and enemies lurking within it, but none more menacing or inventive than Count Olaf.
The cast of the MTV reality show Jersey Shore have revealed some of their most memorable catchphrases.
Chrissy Metz and Josh Stancil are no longer together!
Tyler Henry helps a late family member of Tyler Oakley's say what he couldn't before he passed in Wednesday's episode of "Hollywood Medium."
Ben Affleck is reportedly jealous of Jennifer Garner’s new boyfriend, John Miller.
It’s official: Zendaya and Tom Holland are dating!
John Goodman is opening up about his battle with alcoholism.
Chelsea Houska shared a photo of her 38-week baby bump with her Instagram followers on Tuesday.
All images are copyrighted.
The Duke and Duchess of Cambridge have named their son Louis Arthur Charles.
The Duke and Duchess of Cambridge still don’t know the gender of the baby they’re expecting!
It's Valentine's Day!
It’s that time of year again!
It’s that time of year again.
The Duke and Duchess of Cambridge's father-in-law has been charged with rape, according to reports.
Prince Harry and Meghan Markle’s wedding bouquet is here!
It was a double celebration for one celebrity couple!
How do you celebrate the arrival of twins?
Some of the quirkier snippets from the news in Aberdeen that we did not know last week:
All images are copyrighted.
Find out more about TrendolizerTM at get.trendolizer.com
Pop star Taylor Swift surprised the crowd at Nashville's Bluebird Cafe with a surprise performance.
It was all about the bling at a bridal shower for one actress!
A selection of photos from around the world this week:
It’s that time of year again.
On 1st April, millions of people around the world celebrate April fool’s day.
Steven Bochco, a producer whose boundary-pushing series such as “Hill Street Blues” and “NYPD Blue” helped define the modern TV drama, has died at the age of 74.
The live musical, which starred John Legend in the title role, drew a 1.7 rating in adults 18-49 and 9.4 million viewers.
"Being famous is hard enough dealing with scrutiny but when someone feels comfortable to come touch your child it's a whole other story," she said.
A selection of photos from around the world this week:
John Legend, Alice Cooper, Sara Bareilles, and Brandon Victor Dixon brought Jesus Christ Superstar back to life on TV.
Jennifer Lawrence helped Luann de Lesseps come up with her new tagline for The Real Housewives of New York City.
Justin Timberlake and Jessica Biel needed some extra help after things didn’t exactly go according to plan during the birth of their son Silas Randall.
Kendra Wilkinson Baskett and Hank Baskett have been married for almost 10 years, but are they ready to call it quits?
It’s been more than 20 years since Selma Blair’s boyfriend died suddenly, but the actress is still in love with him.
Take a look at who's in the running to be this year's Christmas Number One.
A selection of photos from around the world this week:
There was a time when Country music had its own pop star.
If you’ve ever wondered what it’s like to be a member of the Royal Family, you’ve come to the right place.
The couple announced their split in a joint statement, saying, “There are no secrets nor salacious events at the root of our decision.”
Food Network star Duff Goldman is engaged to writer Johnna Colbry.
Jenna Fischer wore a bath towel on Jimmy Kimmel Live after the zipper on her dress broke.
All images are copyrighted.
Maci Bookout has filed for an order of protection against her ex, Teen Mom OG star Ryan Edwards.
"I'm so happy for her that she was free."
The former couple, both 37, announced their separation on Monday after almost nine years of marriage and welcoming 4-year-old daughter Everly in 2013.
If you've ever tried a charcoal peel-off mask, you'll know what I'm talking about.
WWE Superstar Daniel Bryan has been medically cleared to return to in-ring action following a series of concussions.
Reality TV star Kim Kardashian West has been working out with celebrity trainer Gunnar Peterson.
Take a look at who's in the running to be this year's Christmas Number One.
All images are copyrighted.
He’s one of the world’s biggest pop stars and now he’s also one of the biggest dads-to-be.
It's official!
Leighton Meester's new hair shade is icy platinum.
All photos subject to copyright.
It's not every day you're asked to help deliver a baby.
Take a look at who's in the running to be this year's Christmas Number One.
American Horror Story creator and executive producer Ryan Murphy’s latest project has been put on hold.
It’s almost Coachella time.
All images are copyrighted.
The Real Housewives of New York City star talks about her battle with alcohol addiction in this week’s issue of PEOPLE.
The nominations for this year’s British Academy Television Awards have been announced in London.
"Mad Men" star Jon Hamm talks about his early career in the soft-core porn industry.
In case you missed it, here’s your chance to meet Desiree O.
The Jennifer Lopez-led NBC cop drama “Shades of Blue” will end after its upcoming third season, the network announced Wednesday.
We've all heard the saying, "If you've got a job and you go to the gym, let me know I guess."
It's one of the most talked-about wedding stories of all time.
They’re already parents to 10-year-old Shayla.
The photographer that Taylor Swift's father, Scott Swift, allegedly attacked in Australia this week says he's willing to put this whole thing behind them... on one condition.
It's that time of year again: wedding prep.
Prince Louis of Cambridge will be known as His Royal Highness Prince Louis of Cambridge, Kensington Palace has announced.
It's one of the most talked-about celebrity splits of all time.
As Meghan Markle prepares for her royal wedding to Prince Harry, she reportedly is finding herself haunted by ghosts from her past.
Tyra Banks says she would have more work done if she had cellulite.
All photographs  Getty Images.
All images subject to copyright.
If you’ve ever wanted to go to a music festival but didn’t know where to start, you’re in the right place.
It's a sad day in the world of reality TV.
BBC Sport takes a look at some of the key stories of the week.
The #TimesUp campaign against sexual harassment in the film industry has been widely praised, but one director is not so sure.
It’s been a busy few months for the rapper.
Jay-Z says he and wife Beyonce are in a better place today than they were a year ago.
“Don’t be afraid to be the one that loved the most and give everything you had, because you’ve got to find people who love like you do and who are ready.”
All images are copyrighted.
What do you do when you give birth to your first child?
"Jersey Shore" star Sammi 'Sweetheart' Giancola tweeted her support for Deena Nicole Cortese on the show's return.
Kate Hudson and Danny Fujikawa are expecting their first child together!
Here's a look back at some of Carrie Underwood's best fitness and social media posts this year.
It’s the end of the road for one of Hollywood’s most famous couples.
All images are copyrighted.
Who is Brad Pitt's new girlfriend?
It’s official - Beyonce’s daughter Blue Ivy has her own stylist and personal shopper.
Are Jax Taylor’s days on Vanderpump Rules numbered following his shocking meltdown on the latest episode of the show?
"It doesn't have to be a heartbreak."
It's one of the biggest nights in the world of professional wrestling.
All images are copyrighted.
“Don’t be afraid to be the one that loved the most and give everything you had, because you’ve got to find people who love like you do and who are ready.”
Paris Hilton celebrates her 20th birthday with family and friends at HYDE Sunset in West Hollywood.
Russell Crowe says he sold off some of his personal memorabilia in a Sotheby’s Australia auction.
It’s one of the biggest celebrity feuds of all time.
All images are copyrighted.
My True Crime Story airs Tuesdays at 10/9c on truTV.
They're one of the most famous couples in Hollywood, but how much do you know about their net worth?
It's not every day you get to share pictures of your own "flaws" on social media.
All images are copyrighted.
"Big life decisions are hardest when made for the right reasons."
It’s official: Cardi B is pregnant.
All images are copyrighted.
Prosecutors have decided not to charge the son of Motley Crue frontman Tommy Lee with assault.
In case you missed it, here’s your chance to meet Desiree O.
In the summer issue of GQ Style, Brad Pitt and Angelina Jolie sit down for an exclusive interview at their Los Angeles home.
The Los Angeles mansion once owned by Michael Jordan has been sold.
Frances Bean Cobain hopes her late father would be proud of her.
All images are copyrighted.
All images are copyrighted.
All images are copyrighted.
Brad Pitt and Neri Oxman have reportedly struck up a friendship based on their shared love of architecture.
One Tree Hill actor Chad Michael Murray has revealed that his late grandmother died by suicide.
Janelle Monae’s new video for “PYNK” features a shot of her friend, Thor: Ragnorok actress Tessa Thompson, poking her head out between their lips, like a beautiful adult baby popping through the birth canal (though some have speculated she’s the clitoris).
Ellen DeGeneres helped pregnant Eva Longoria pick out some unique baby names using a random generator on The Ellen Show.
It seems like Cardi B may have accidentally revealed her baby's sex during a radio interview.
Andy Cohen has revealed that one of his Watch What Live guests turned him down.
It's one of the biggest nights in country music.
All content is copyrighted.
Amazon shoppers say these now-$20 Flats Are Comfy Enough to Wear "Straight Out of the Box"
How do you get your child into a private school?
Kate Hudson has been spotted wearing a ring on her wedding finger while out with musician boyfriend Danny Fujikawa, but a source tells PEOPLE the couple is not engaged.
All images are copyrighted.
All images are copyrighted.
All images are copyrighted.
In a new “Family” featurette, the cast of “Avengers: Infinity War” talk about their MCU “family” and what it has meant to them over the time they’ve spent together making MCU films.
It's been a pretty good year for the Currys.
All images are copyrighted.
Shannen Doherty is best known for playing the roles of Heather Duke in Heathers, Brenda Walsh in Beverly Hills 90210 and Prue Halliwell inCharmed.
Pop star Mariah Carey reveals that she is being treated for bipolar disorder.
It’s almost wedding season!
Former Bachelor star Robby Hayes and his ex-girlfriend Amanda Stanton are at the centre of a social media storm after he shared his ex’s private messages on social media.
A photo of Lovato out on the town with old Disney Channel friends, first surfaced on an Instagram account for the pop star Hayley Kiyoko.
Deborra-Lee Furness is the estranged wife of actor Hugh Jackman.
The former Hills star and her husband, Jay Cutler, are starring in a new unscripted series, Very Cavallari...
It’s been a whirlwind year for one R&B star and her new husband.
It’s a boy!
All images are copyrighted.
Andy Cohen has revealed that one of his Watch What Live guests turned him down.
The Late Late Show star plays an annoying co-worker who will barge in on group activities if he hears the slightest sound.
It’s not always easy being a mother.
Kerry Washington is a national treasure...
The cast of The Sandlot reunited on the baseball diamond Thursday, 25 years after the iconic coming-of-age movie landed in cinemas, and the kids are all grown up.
If you've ever wondered who Zayn Malik's girlfriend is, you've come to the right place.
It’s good to be Bella Thorne.
It’s back.
This week's EastEnders saw the return of one of the soap's most memorable villains.
It's a girl!
Check out Meek Mill's new album, Championships, below.
A year after morning news shows at CBS and NBC abruptly lost male anchors Charlie Rose and Matt Lauer in sexual misconduct scandals, the “Today” show has done appreciably better weathering the storm.
“She’s so happy, and I’m thrilled for her.”
It's never a good idea to be in the wrong place at the wrong time.
“I was a mess in Italy,” Farley told Sorrentino, as the pair recalled their previous years of partying and filming the show.
Gwen Stefani and Blake Shelton have been together for more than 10 years, so here's a look back at some of the most romantic moments between the couple.
From messy breakup to new love, small town to big league, Goodwill to Givenchy, her fearless confidence and authenticity continues to blaze a trail for women, and for humanity.
All images subject to copyright.
All images are copyrighted.
Are you looking forward to the day when your friends turn 30?
The Million Dollar Listing Los Angeles family just got a little bigger. David Parnes welcomed his first child, a girl, with wife Adrian Abnosi on Thursday, April 12.
The Real Housewives of New York City star received a reading from Hollywood Medium Tyler Henry in an exclusive clip on Monday while she and Henry were at one of the famed restaurants created by Jean-Claude Baker.
How much money can a basketball superstar be worth?
It’s been a few months since Cardi B announced she was expecting her first child with husband Kulture Kiari, but the couple’s fashion designer, Shawn Carter, has been talking about the process of hiding her bump.
Gwen Stefani has revealed that her boyfriend, Blake Shelton, will play a big role in her upcoming Las Vegas residency.
It's time to get your butt injections!
All images are copyrighted.
Country star Kelsea Ballerini walks the red carpet at the 2018 Academy of Country Music Awards on Sunday (April 15) at the MGM Grand Garden Arena in Las Vegas.
Miranda Lambert made her first red carpet appearance after splitting from boyfriend Anderson East at the ACM Awards on Sunday in Las Vegas.
CMAs pay tribute to 12 victims of Thousand Oaks mass shooting The CMAs opened the show with a tribute to the victims of the Thousand Oaks mass shooting.
All images subject to copyright.
Miranda Lambert wins Female Vocalist of the Year at the Academy of Country Music Awards.
A selection of photos from around the world this week:
The Stapletons are expecting their fifth child!
It's a split you don't want to make.
Kim Zolciak-Biermann says she will no longer interact with Nene Leakes on social media.
As Coachella draws to a close, we take a look back at some of the highlights from this year’s festival.
Reba McEntire and Kelly Clarkson perform "Does He Love You" at the 53rd Academy of Country Music Awards.
.
All images are copyrighted.
In the latest episode of Total Divas, John Cena and Nikki Bella get married in front of their family and friends, but did you know that she was previously married?
"Unbreakable Kimmy Schmidt" star Tituss Burgess' grandmother has really bad timing when it comes to communicating with him from the other side.
John Cena and Nikki Bella have called off their wedding after six years together.
What do you get if you marry a professional basketball player and give birth to a baby girl?
Kendrick Lamar has won the Pulitzer Prize for music, making history as the first nonclassical or jazz artist to win the prestigious prize.
Lamar Odom has responded to Kanye West's touching tweet about him.
"Barbara Bush was a fabulous first lady and a woman unlike any other who brought levity, love, and literacy to millions."
It's David Beckham's birthday today and he's not the only one celebrating!
If you’ve ever wondered what it’s like to be a member of the British royal family, you’ve come to the right place.
It’s a boy!
It's all change in Eleanor's life in this week's episode of Eleanor of Aquitaine.
The actress who plays Dolores Abernathy in HBO’s sci-fi hit tells TheWrap that her paycheck didn’t match her status for the series’ first two seasons.
Are You The One?
Singer Rachel Platten has admitted she forgot the words to the national anthem during a live performance on Saturday.
Jonas Brothers perform at the American Music Awards in Los Angeles.
Olympic gold medal winner Jordyn Wieber has filed a lawsuit against Michigan State University, USA Gymnastics and others over sexual abuse by Larry Nassar.
All images are copyrighted.
Queer Eye’s Jonathan Van Ness reflects on his weight loss journey in an Instagram post.
Johnny Galecki will make his big return to “Roseanne” in Tuesday’s episode of the ABC revival, titled “Darlene v.
She might be a Grammy-winning pop star known for her brazen attitude and tomboyish style, but Alecia Moore — professionally known as Pink — admits she’s just taking it “day by day” when it comes to being a mom to her two kids Jameson Moon, 15 months, and Willow Sage,
People have been paying tribute to Barbara Bush on social media following her death.
All images are copyrighted.
Take a look at who's in the running to be this year's Christmas Number One.
Tributes have been pouring in for former US President George HW Bush.
Comedian Amy Schumer’s latest film, “I Feel Pretty,” has flopped at the box office.
Brie Bella broke her silence on her twin sister Nikki Bella’s split with John Cena to say she will always have a special place in her heart for her almost brother-in-law.
Find out more about TrendolizerTM at get.trendolizer.com
If you're a Cardi B fan, you're in for a treat.
I Feel Pretty is a comedy about a woman who hates the way she looks.
He once dated a girl who had her face plastered over her bedroom.
The Real Housewives of New York City took Tribeca, celebrating ten years of laughter, drama and flying prosthetics at a Tribeca TV Festival panel.
It's official: Gwyneth Paltrow and Brad Falchuk are engaged.
It’s official: Claire Danes is pregnant with her second child.
It’s been a turbulent few weeks for the cast of Jersey Shore.
Alanis Morissette shows off her new pixie cut at a performance of "Dear Evan Hansen" on Broadway.
Quinn Perkins wasn’t killed off in last week’s episode of “Scandal.”
Kim Kardashian West and her sisters, Kourtney and Khloé Kardashian, are saying goodbye to a chapter in their lives.
The wait is finally over!
It's official.
It was one of the most iconic Hollywood films of all time.
Scandal ended its seven-season run with a series finale that explored the ramifications of going public with the existence of black-ops group B613 and the ultimate corruption that comes with the thirst for power and the Oval Office.
It's been five years since Kerry Washington first donned Olivia Pope's white trench coat on the ABC drama "Scandal."
All images are copyrighted.
It's a girl!
It’s 4:20 on New Year’s Eve, which means it’s time to get high.
A Florida man has been accused of breaking into Taylor Swift's SoHo townhouse and taking a shower and nap, sources say. What to Know A Florida man has been accused of breaking into Taylor Swift's SoHo townhouse and taking a shower and nap, sources say He was arrested on trespassing, stalking and burglary charges
"He is recovering, feeling great, and looking forward to getting back on the golf course this summer."
Avicii's ex-girlfriend Emily Goldberg has broken her silence on the Swedish DJ's sudden death. Following the news of Avicii's shocking death on Friday, Goldberg took to Instagram to share her sentiments and captioned ten intimate images of the former couple that read, “'Come on babe
Grey’s Anatomy has just been renewed for a 15th season, making it ABC’s longest-running primetime drama series ever.
All images are copyrighted.
Country star Carrie Underwood shared a close-up picture on social media of her face, which showed the singer’s scars around her upper lip and chin, while supporting her husband, Mike Fisher, and his hockey team, the Nashville Predators.
Macaulay Culkin may be the star of the childhood classic, Home Alone, but don’t ask to watch it with him because he simply won’t.
Did Sebastian Stan just reveal a major spoiler before Avengers: Infinity War hits cinemas?
This is the moment you’ll never forget.
A selection of photos from around the world this week:
In the season 5 finale of The 100, Clarke (Eliza Taylor), Bellamy (Bob Morley), and the survivors of the human race made it off the planet just in time to escape nuclear fallout.
The Dancing with the Stars star has given birth to twins!
All images are copyrighted.
Prince Harry and Meghan Markle were greeted by a choir as they arrived in Melbourne, Australia, on Thursday.
It’s a boy!
The Mamma Mia musical is finally coming to Netflix.
When a singer says she’s not going, she means it.
If you’ve ever wanted to get behind the wheel of a sports car, you’ve come to the right place.
Ahead of the second season of The Handmaid’s Tale, we take a look back at the show’s first year on Hulu.
Kourtney Kardashian's work trip to Washington, D.C., is reportedly being filmed for a future episode of Keeping Up With the Kardashians.
If you’ve ever wondered what it’s like to perform on the biggest stage in music, you’ve come to the right place.
All images subject to copyright.
An actress accused of helping run a secretive sex cult has been released on bail.
It's not every day you get to share naked photos of yourself on social media.
Comedienne Tina Fey says she's "good in Beyoncé's book".
Lethal Weapon star Clayne Crawford is making amends for his bad behavior on the set of the Fox reboot.
All images are copyrighted.
Prince Harry and his bride-to-be Meghan Markle at the Anzac Day service at the Tower of London.
She's back!
Lauren Cohan’s return to “The Walking Dead” has been confirmed by the show’s executive producer Angela Kang.
It's not every day you get the chance to rub shoulders with some of the biggest names in Hollywood.
Mick Fleetwood, drummer and co-founder of Fleetwood Mac, has spoken out about the bands split with guitarist Lindsey Buckingham.
"It's not too hot, not too cold - just bring a light jacket."
It's that time of year again.
It's hard to know what to expect when you're pregnant.
Blake Shelton says he’s “moving on” from his cryptic tweet about ex-wife Miranda Lambert.
A look back at some of the most popular movies of the past 50 years.
Kim Kardashian West has taken to Twitter to defend her husband, Kanye West, after rapper Rhymefest accused him of not giving money to a Chicago non-profit.
The first episode of Vogue’s new series, Being Serena, premiered in New York City on Monday night, with guests including Vogue editor Anna Wintour, designer Vera Wang, and Serena’s husband, Reddit co-founder Alexis Ohanian.
He's one of the world's most famous baseball players, and now he's also one of the most famous men in the world.
Actor and comedian Seth Rogen says he refused to take a photo with House Speaker Paul Ryan because he “hates what you’re doing to the country at this moment.”
“Racism is a sad reality in the United States,” she says.
David Blaine has performed a trick on Jimmy Fallon in a video posted to his Facebook page.
Watch Ozuna and Cardi B perform "La Modelo" at the BBLMAs.
We Should Listen to Palestinians, Not Selena Gomez (Or Other Cele...
Check out Jennifer Lopez’s performance of her new song “El Anillo” at the Billboard Latin Music Awards.
The family of Avicii has spoken out for the first time since the musician's death last week.
Imagine Dragons frontman Dan Reynolds and his wife Aja Volkman have split.
A selection of photos from around the world this week:
The Duke and Duchess of Cambridge are celebrating 10 years of marriage.
Halsey is freezing her eggs to protect her fertility.
The last full day of our Gal the cruise dawned bright, with clear skies. The last full day of our Gal the cruise dawned bright, with clear skies.
Kelis, Nas' Ex-Wife, Accuses Rapper Of Physical And Mental Abuse
The feud between cardi b and nicki minaj is heating up again.
All images are copyrighted.
KKW Body III is the first unisex fragrance to be launched by a major fashion brand.
Jersey Shore star Mike Sorrentino has married his girlfriend, Lauren Pesce.
The stars of Marvel Studios’ Avengers: Infinity War boarded a bus for the company’s inaugural tour.
A selection of photos from around the world this week:
Benedict Cumberbatch’s latest film, Doctor Strange, opens in US cinemas on Friday.
All images are copyrighted.
Murphy Brown will return to TV screens in the fall.
In an email obtained by The Hollywood Reporter and sent to a handful of NBC News colleagues, Brokaw strenuously denies the detailed account of Linda Vester.
All images are copyrighted.
All images subject to copyright.
Katy Perry and Orlando Bloom headed to the Vatican for a conference and the pair got to meet Pope Francis.
Lea Michele is engaged to boyfriend Zandy Reich.
She's back!
Find out more about TrendolizerTM at get.trendolizer.com
Kylie Jenner rented out a theme park to celebrate boyfriend Travis Scott’s 26th birthday.
The Parkland school shooting survivor was seemingly disinterested in Kanye West‘s praise of her.
After getting the chance to meet Pope Francis on Saturday, Katy Perry and Orlando Bloom shared a [...]
The summer wedding season is officially under way!
Prince William and Duchess Kate celebrated their seventh wedding anniversary on Sunday, April 29, and Kensington Palace commemorated the occasion with an adorable photo of the couple from their wedding day.
All images are copyrighted.
It’s been a record-breaking weekend at the box office.
It’s been a busy few weeks for one of the Keeping Up With the Kardashians stars.
It’s official!
A look back at some of the top Teen Mom stories over the past year.
One of Sweden’s most prominent literary figures has been accused of sexual assault.
Find out more about TrendolizerTM at get.trendolizer.com
R&B singer R. Kelly has responded to calls for him to be stripped of his music rights over allegations of sexual misconduct with underaged women.
The Vanderpump Rules season finale was a roller coaster of emotions as Lisa Vanderpump, queen of re-hiring people she’s fired, once again severed ties with one of the SUR employees.
Becca Kufrin is back and looking for love in the new teaser trailer for her upcoming season of The Bachelorette.
All images are copyrighted.
Who doesn't love a good scoop?
How did Jersey Shore stars Ronnie Ortiz-Magro and Jen Harley break up?
It all started with a tweet about Tom Hiddleston.
"It's all over,"pumped Katie Maloney.
Ant-Man may not have been killed by Thanos in Avengers: Infinity War, but he could be key to saving the world in Avengers: Endgame.
It’s that time of year again.
Dale Dale Jr., the former Hendrick Motorsports driver, has a new addition to his family.
Can you spot a tweet when you see one?
Paul Nassif is a plastic surgeon who has a net worth of $40 million. Nassif also appeared in the first three seasons of "The Real Housewives of Beverly Hills" alongside his now ex-wife Adrienne Maloof, who was a main cast member.
It’s not every day you get to celebrate two big anniversaries with your husband!
Kanye West says Taylor Swift was one of the factors that caused his nervous breakdown in 2016 -- namely, the aftermath of interrupting her at the VMAs and how it affected his radio play.
It's one of the biggest events in the fashion world, the Met Gala.
"I have no advice to give, except epidural immediately."
Married at First Sight stars Shawniece Jackson and Jephte Pierre are first-time parents to a baby girl they welcomed (three weeks early!) on Monday, Aug.
It's been a week to remember for Taylor Swift.
It's been a turbulent week for one of the stars of The Real Housewives of New York City.
What do you make of it?
Kim Kardashian West has unfollowed Tristan Thompson on Instagram, after the Cleveland Cavaliers player posted a picture of himself with a towel over his head.
If you're a fan of Goth rock 'n' roll, you've come to the right place.
Mama June Shannon has got married!
Erika Jayne is returning to the soap opera that made her famous.
The Duke and Duchess of Cambridge are expecting their first child in April, Kensington Palace has announced.
It's not looking good.
Here is the full episode synopsis for The Arrangement, which airs on NBC on Monday, 8 July at 10:00 pm:
Take a look at who's in the running to be this year's Christmas Number One.
Are you a fan of all things pop culture?
Take a look at who's in the running to be this year's Christmas Number One.
The former Bachelor and his fiancée are on their second international vacation since getting engaged in March.
All pictures subject to copyright.
It started on Instagram!
All images are copyrighted.
BBC Sport takes a look back at some of the most memorable moments from this year's FA Cup.
All content is copyrighted.
He’s one of the most famous footballers in the world, but Brooklyn Beckham missed his dad’s birthday because he was in New York City.
A man who was convicted of stalking Sandra Bullock in 2014 was found dead on Wednesday in an apparent suicide at his home in La Crescenta, California.
Are Hayley and Elijah going to get back together on The Originals?
It’s one of the most romantic songs you’ll ever hear.
She’s one of Hollywood’s most famous actresses, but is she really illiterate?
It’s official: Helena Bonham Carter and Jason Watkins are joining the cast of Peter Morgan’s royal drama.
Shenae Grimes-Beech and husband Josh Beech are expecting their first child later this year.
All images are copyrighted.
Enrique Iglesias has teamed up with Pitbull for a new English-language single called “Move to Miami.”
A big swirling bucket of the latest rumors, celebrity news and Hollywood gossip.
Ashlee Simpson is an American singer-songwriter and actress who has a net Worth of $11 million.
The "Divorce" and "Sex and the City" star brought her 8-year-old twins Tabitha Hodge and Marion Loretta out on the town on May 3, chaperoning them to New York City Ballet's Spring Gala.
All pictures subject to copyright.
Ellen Pompeo has spent 14 seasons as Meredith Grey, the star of ABC's hit drama "Grey's Anatomy."
Kirsten Dunst has given birth to her first child, a baby boy, with her fiancé, Jesse Plemons, her rep confirms to Us Weekly.
The results are in... and American Idol will return for a second season on ABC.
Angie Douthit has revealed in an Instagram post that she's about to begin her next round of chemotherapy.
For the fashion world, the Met Gala red carpet is one of the most important night's of the year.
In a tense dinner conversation, Danielle Staub revealed that she doesn't get along with Marty Caffrey's children.
All photographs  Steven McQueen.
Dannielynn Birkhead is the daughter of the late American Playboy model Anna Nicole Smith and freelance celebrity photographer Larry Birkhead.
All of Blake Lively’s Instagram posts are back!
It's been a long time coming, but it looks like King Robert can finally talk his way out of things. King Robert has demonstrated before that he can talk his way out of things, but he proves just how smooth he is during The Royals Season 4 finale.
All pictures subject to copyright.
Hailee Steinfeld's best red carpet looks to date.
Some of the biggest names in celebrity fashion have attended this year's Met Gala in New York City.
It's almost Mother's Day!
Bella Hadid and David Foster kissed on the cheek at this year's Met Gala.
It's that time of year again - the biggest night in fashion!
There's no such thing as a perfect Met Gala.
Anna Wintour supports Scarlett Johansson’s decision to wear Marchesa at the Met Gala.
Adam Rippon, Mirai Nagasu, Josh Norman, Sharna Burgess and more!
The nominees and host for the 2018 CMT Music Awards have been revealed.
Nick Jonas may be a Grammy-nominated musician and actor, but the 25-year-old is still careful about his money. Nick Jonas may be a Grammy-nominated musician and actor, but the 25-year-old is still careful about his money.
If you’re wondering who bit Beyoncé at a party last year, you’ve come to the right place!
Take a look at who's in the running to be this year's Christmas Number One.
Kim DePaola's boob job wasn't the only thing that got her into trouble last year.
Kate Bosworth and Alexander Skarsgard are back together!
Take a look at who's in the running to be this year's Christmas Number One.
They are the worst of the worst.
Just five months after Colton Haynes filed for divorce from husband Jeff Leatham, the pair shared gushy tributes to each other to mark their one-year wedding anniversary on Sunday.
Scarlett Johansson wore Marchesa to the Met Gala.
Jennifer Lopez will be performing at this year’s Billboard Music Awards.
Pop star Christina Aguilera has announced her 2018 world tour, which will kick off in Hollywood, Florida on Tuesday, September 25th.
She’s expecting her first child with husband Kulture Kiari.
What do you do if you're the Backstreet Boys?
Take a look at who's in the running to be this year's Christmas Number One.
Alec Baldwin and his wife Hilaria have named their newborn son Romeo Alejandro David Baldwin.
It's that time of year again when the biggest names in Hollywood come together for the biggest night of the year.
Christina Aguilera and Britney Spears have had their moments, supporting each other publicly.
If you've been living under a rock for the past few months, you'll know that The Arrangement is one of E!'s most popular shows. will most likely wait until after the season finale before they make a decision, and even then it may take a little more time before there's
In the wake of the Harvey Weinstein scandal, Rose McGowan has become one of the most visible figures in the #metoo movement.
A selection of photos from around the world this week:
He's the man behind Glee, American Horror Story, and Nip/Tuck.
It's official!
All images are copyrighted.
A look back at some of the best Instagram posts from celebrities over the past week.
When it comes to breakfast, there's no such thing as an easy decision.
It’s that time of year again when celebrities pop the question.
Anna Wintour supports Scarlett Johansson’s decision to wear Marchesa at the Met Gala.
Country music star Carrie Underwood appeared on NBC's Today show on Wednesday to talk about her fall last year, which resulted in a broken wrist and injuries to her face that required more than 40 stitches.
Deadpool hires David Beckham to promote the sequel to his hit film.
The always adorable Jennifer Garner continued to make us fall in love with her while co-hosting a Mother's Day episode of "The Ellen DeGeneres Show" on Thursday.
I’m not into Bethenny this week, but I’m into hard boiled eggs! Well, maybe I’m not into Bethenny this week, but I’m obviously into hard boiled eggs!
Pop star Hayley Kiyoko has spoken out against a new song by Rita Ora, saying that it “fuels the male gaze while marginalizing the idea of women loving other women.”
Meghan McCain, the daughter of former Republican presidential candidate John McCain, says she's "no Hunter Biden" after the son of former Vice President Joe Biden appeared on "The View".
Police have arrested a man suspected of breaking into Rihanna’s home.
Check out some of the highlights from Luke Bryan's MetLife Stadium show.
Kendrick Lamar, Jay Rock, SZA, ScHoolboy Q, SiR, Ab-Soul, and more from Top Dawg Entertainment.
It’s finally here!
Glee star Kevin McHale has come out as gay.
Thousands of Star Wars fans gathered in Los Angeles for the premiere of "Solo: A Star Wars Story."
Bella Hadid and The Weeknd kiss at Cannes Film Festival...
A selection of photos from around the world this week:
All images are copyrighted.
She’s one of Hollywood’s most famous actresses and now she’s about to hit the big screen in her latest film, Book Club.
Stars including Chrissy Teigen, Victoria Beckham and Giuliana Rancic looked dazzling as they arrived at the People’s Choice Awards ceremony, which honored achievement in film, TV, music, social media and other areas of pop culture.
All images are copyrighted.
It's a boy!
All images are copyrighted.
The Handmaid’s Tale actress, 35, happily announced on Instagram Friday that she is expecting her first child with husband Tim Loden.
All images are copyrighted.
The 2018 Billboard Music Awards took place at the MGM Grand Garden Arena in Las Vegas on Sunday, May 20.
A selection of photos from around the world this week:
It’s that time of year again.
"I'm alone a lot and I'm alone in these big, beautiful homes, which you're like, gosh, I mean, these homes are unreal."
The fashion design reality television series is moving back to Bravo for its upcoming 17th season.
"I see the point of kids after you've been with someone for so long."
Imagine two of the world’s most famous supermodels meeting for the first time.
Margot Kidder, the actress best known for playing the iconic Lois Lane opposite Christopher Reeve in the "Superman" movies, has died at the age of 69.
Take a look at who's in the running to be this year's Christmas Number One.
Teenage mum contracted a stomach-churning case of gangrene after undergoing a potentially deadly tummy tuck and boob job.
Pauley Perrette says she was sexually assaulted on the set of N.C.I.S.
If you’re a fan of hip-hop and R&B, you’re in for a treat this summer.
Images courtesy of AFP, EPA, Getty Images and Reuters
A source tells PEOPLE that Khloé Kardashian’s family still disagrees with her decision to stay with Tristan Thompson, but they are trying to be supportive.
She may be one of the world's most famous dancers, but she's also one of the most eco-conscious.
It’s not every day you see a member of the Kardashian-Jenner family supporting your ex.
The Pretty Little Liars spin-off, Theists, is finally here!
All images subject to copyright.
If you're an alcoholic, you've probably heard of True American.
Damon Wayans claims Lethal Weapon costar Clayne Crawford was responsible for an injury he sustained on the set.
Imagine you’re asked to read for a role and your agent tells you to go on a 10-day fishing trip.
Kanye West has got rid of his phone, so he’s not answering anyone’s text messages.
Avengers: Infinity War was named best movie of the year at the People's Choice Awards on Sunday night.
Taylor Swift says she had the'most Wonderful Time' as She Up Final Eras Tour Show in Sydney.
The actor who plays Mission: Impossible 6 has taken to social media to defend his facial hair.
Who will walk Meghan Markle down the aisle at her royal wedding? Because Harris said even though Princess Margaret's brother-in-law Prince Philip walked her down the aisle when she wed Antony Armstrong-Jones in 1960, since the Duke of Cambridge is Harry's best man, he already has a "
It’s the end of an era.
It's almost time for the big day!
Check out the new single from Christina Aguilera and Demi Lovato, “Fall in Line.”
Check out the full list of nominees for the 2018 BET Awards below.
The Case Against Adnan Syed will explore the murder case against Adnan Syed, whose conviction in the 1999 killing of Hae Min Lee was the focus of the hit podcast Serial.
In the latest episode of Total Divas, John Cena and Nikki Bella get married in front of their family and friends, but did you know that she was previously married?
BBC Sport takes a look at some of the key stories of the week.
Brittany Cartwright says she's "so much happier now" after Jax Taylor cheated on her last summer.
Riverdale season 2 release date, episode titles and more...
It’s that time of year again.
The 2018 Billboard Music Awards took place on Sunday night in Las Vegas, Nevada.
Billie Eilish, Carly Rae Jepsen, Alessia Cara and Selena Gomez are the next generation of female pop stars.
Oxygen Media, the home for quality true crime programming, is aggressively expanding its original series slate with 10 new greenlights and the US premiere of a Piers Morgan event series, it was announced today by Rod Aissa, Executive Vice President, Original Programming and Development, Oxygen Media.
Check out our picks of Nicki Minaj's most outrageous and fantastically twisted fashions.
It’s not every day you get to meet the man who plays T’Challa in Black Panther.
Tony Award-winning actress Ruthie Ann Miles has lost her unborn child.
It's not every day you see a supermodel wearing a Levi's.
Sarah Jessica Parker and Matthew Broderick Net Worth: Sarah Jessica Parker is an American actress and the wife of actor Matthew Broderick.
Four more members of the original Once Upon a Time cast are leaving the ABC fantasy drama.
A selection of photos from around the world this week:
Heidi Klum and Tom Kaulitz hit the red carpet together at the Cannes Film Festival.
Pope Francis has called for an end to the "culture of fear" in an interview with the BBC's Victoria Derbyshire programme.
John Legend and Chrissy Teigen have named their baby boy Miles Theodore Stephens.
With just hours to go before the royal wedding, Meghan Markle arrived at the Cliveden House Hotel with her mom Doria Ragland after tea with Queen Elizabeth II.
They're fascinators, and you're about to see them gracing many of the heads of Prince Harry and Meghan Markle's wedding attendees.
Ed Sheeran, Janet Jackson and Camila Cabello were among the winners at this year's Billboard Music Awards.
A selection of photos from around the world this week:
All images are copyrighted.
All images are copyrighted.
All images are copyrighted.
It’s that time of year again.
Rob Kardashian and Tyga have donated thousands of dollars to help Blac Chyna’s assistant.
Prince Harry and Meghan Markle's wedding cake will be made by the owner of a hipster bakery in Hackney.
Lana Parrilla says her Evil Queen character will no longer go by her Storybrooke name of Regina Mills.
It's official: Prince Harry and Meghan Markle are the Duke and Duchess of Sussex.
All images are copyrighted.
Four more members of the original Once Upon a Time cast are leaving the ABC fantasy drama.
More than 29 million Americans tuned in to watch the royal wedding on Saturday.
It's official.
All images are copyrighted.
All pictures subject to copyright.
Prince Harry and Meghan Markle have said their vows in a ceremony at Windsor Castle.
A lot of bling, a lot of style, some kick-ass dancing (JLo does not disappoint) and a whole lotta cash flying around punctured the TV premiere of Jennifer Lopez, DJ Khaled and Cardi B’s “Dinero” at the 2018 Billboard Music Awards on May 20.
A selection of photos from around the world this week:
All images subject to copyright.
It's not every day you see two young royals dressed up as page boys and bridesmaids at a royal wedding.
Take a look at who's in the running to be this year's Christmas Number One.
Princess Eugenie and Jack Brooksbank's wedding took place on Friday, 12 October, but why didn't the Clooneys make it?
The Duke and Duchess of Cambridge and the Duke and Duchess of Cambridge's two children have attended the royal wedding of Princess Eugenie and Jack Brooksbank.
We Should Listen to Palestinians, Not Selena Gomez (Or Other Cele...
Prince Charles and his wife Alizée Thervenet live in a fairytale family home in Berkshire
Prince Harry and Meghan Markle were married at Windsor Castle on Saturday.
The Duke and Duchess of Cambridge's five-year-old son Prince George and three-year-old daughter Princess Charlotte both served as attendants in Princess Eugenie's wedding party, accompanying the bride into St.
Prince Charles has walked Meghan Markle down the aisle at her royal wedding to Prince Harry.
Prince Harry asked Sir Elton John to perform at his wedding reception, Kensington Palace has confirmed.
The Duke and Duchess of Sussex have been making headlines for all the wrong reasons.
It's not every day you get to meet your old drama teacher on your wedding day.
It's been almost 40 years since Prince Charles and Princess Diana's royal wedding, but that doesn't mean it's been forgotten.
The Duke and Duchess of Cambridge were married on Saturday, and while the world was watching to see what they would do next, one member of the royal family stole the show.
Prince Harry and Meghan Markle kiss on the steps outside St. George’s Chapel in Windsor on Saturday, after a groundbreaking ceremony that didn’t challenge royal norms so much as drive a gilded coach and horses through them.
Take a look at who's in the running to be this year's Christmas Number One.
It's not every day you get to attend a royal wedding.
As the world celebrates the royal wedding of Prince Harry and Meghan Markle, we take a look back at some of the traditions that helped make the day special.
If you're like us, you're a sucker for a good nail polish.
The director of Valerian and the City of a Thousand Planets has been accused of rape.
Watch Salt-N-Pepa’s Billboard Music Awards performance below.
All images are copyrighted.
It was the hottest show in town!
All images subject to copyright.
Shawn Mendes pays tribute to the victims of gun violence with a moving performance of his track “Youth” featuring Khalid and the show choir from Marjory Stoneman Douglas High School in Parkland, Fla.
Steve Carell and Kelly Clarkson finally met up at this year's Golden Globes.
Check out more of Jenna Dewan's best dance moves in the video above.
Tori Kelly is an American singer and songwriter who has a net worth of $3 million. Tori Kelly first gained recognition after posting videos on YouTube as a teenager, and made it through to Hollywood week on the ninth season of American Idol in 2010.
A selection of photos from around the world this week:
Take a look at who's in the running to be this year's Christmas Number One.
Ed Sheeran, Janet Jackson and Camila Cabello were among the winners at this year's Billboard Music Awards.
All images are copyrighted.
Pop stars Camila Cabello and Normani are back together.
It's one of the biggest nights in the music industry.
It starts with a wedding, ends with a funeral.
Eddie Cibrian and LeAnn Rimes have been married for three years and have two children.
The Duke and Duchess of Cambridge could have kept things simple.
Prince Harry and Meghan Markle are set to have the wedding of the year next year, but don’t expect their royal affair to be a copy of Prince William and Duchess Kate’s 2011 ceremony.
"Gossip Girl" may have aired its last episode in 2012, but its popularity is still reverberating up until now, even sparking speculations of a reboot. "Gossip Girl" may have aired its last episode in 2012, but its popularity is still reverberating up until now, even sparking speculations of a
Taylor Swift, Camila Cabello, Luis Fonsi and Kelly Clarkson were just a few of the stars who made headlines at this year’s BBMAs.
It’s been a long time since we last heard from Edna Mode.
What’s the first word that comes to your mind when you think of nursery decor?
Kelsey Grammer has a double problem...
It's all about the fights!
A selection of photos from around the world this week:
A selection of photos from around the world this week:
Ariana Grande sent her love to fans on Tuesday as dignitaries, survivors, first responders and the people of Manchester gathered to mark the anniversary of the concert bombing that killed 22 people.
It’s been a roller-coaster ride.
All images are copyrighted.
All images are copyrighted.
It's not every day you get to watch a Star Wars movie and a royal wedding at the same time, right?
It’s been a long time coming.
The head of Lucasfilm has spoken out for the first time about the departure of directors Chris Lord and Phil Miller from Solo: A Star Wars Story.
How old is Rory in the Gilmore Girls revival?
All images are copyrighted.
Avicii will be remembered in a private affair with those closest to him.
Becca Kufrin is engaged to Arie Luyendyk Jr.
You can unsubscribe at any time.
Sarah Paulson is an American actress who has a net Worth of $12 million.
A restraining order has been granted to one of the stars of Teen Mom.
Caitlyn Jenner says she spends a lot of time by herself in the house.
If you’re a fan of The Good Wife, you’ll know that the character Julianna Margulies plays on the new TV series Dietland is one of the most intimidating women you’ll ever meet.
In the latest episode of Total Divas, Nikki Bella reveals that she had been married before she met John Cena.
WWE stars John Cena and Nikki Bella are calling it quits just one year after getting engaged in the middle of the ring in front of tens of thousands of fans at Wrestlemania 33.
All images are copyrighted.
Emilia Clarke, who plays Daenerys Targaryen in the final season of Game of Thrones, talks about working with Ron Howard on the new Star Wars film.
Jay-Z and Beyoncé have patched up their differences after the rap mogul accused the singer of cheating on him with her husband, Jay-Z.
All images are copyrighted.
Do you have a question about this article?
Clint and Frances Eastwood’s daughter is pregnant!
"You're my soulmate and I love you."
Take a look at Prince Harry and Duchess Meghan’s first official photo as a married couple.
It’s almost time for the final season of Game of Thrones.
Pop stars Nick Jonas and Phil Mustard turned the MTV Movie and TV Awards into an interstellar dance party.
Lauren Burnham and Arie Luyendyk Jr.
Sarah Silverman has no problem defending Al Franken from the groping allegations that cost him his Senate seat, but has "complicated" feelings about friend Louis C.K.
Zayn Mailk and Sofia Jamora are at it again in his latest music video for “Entertainer.”
Andy Cohen admits that he finds himself in the middle of Bethenny Frankel and Carole Radziwill's feud.
Ariana Grande and Pete Davidson's whirlwind romance hit a rough patch in September following her ex-boyfriend Mac Miller's death.
In the wake of Mac Miller's death, here are five facts about addiction that need to be re-examined.
Lainey Wilson Wins the 2023 CMA Award for Album of the Year
A look back at some of the key facts and figures surrounding the birth of the Duke and Duchess of Cambridge's first child, Prince George.
It’s official!
All images are copyrighted.
It’s been nearly three years since the last episode of one of television’s best-loved shows aired.
It’s not every day you get to play a game of “Jinx” with the host of The Tonight Show.
Prince Harry's ex-girlfriend, Chelsy Davy, attended his royal wedding to Meghan Markle, but she almost didn't.
Thor star Chris Hemsworth has been busting a move in his latest music video, and it's all down to one dog.
Take a look at who's in the running to be this year's Christmas Number One.
Morgan Freeman, one of Hollywood’s biggest stars, has been accused of sexual harassment by eight women, including a production assistant on one of his movies.
Will Smith is taking on the naysayers when it comes to his and wife Jada's longlasting marriage.
Victoria Beckham says the fashion industry has “stolen” her smile... because she doesn’t crack one out of respect to the industry.
Take a look at who's in the running to be this year's Christmas Number One.
In what could double as a storyline for the upcoming season of “Insecure,” co-stars Sarunas J. Jackson and Dominique Perry just had a baby together, and it came as a complete surprise to the woman Jackson was dating at the time.
It's one of the most high-profile divorces in Hollywood.
One of the most popular original series on CBS All Access has been renewed for a third season.
A selection of photos from around the world this week:
It’s been a long time coming.
It’s one of WWE’s biggest couples, but it’s also one of its biggest problems.
Teen Mom 2 star Kailyn Lowry is expecting her fourth child.
Take a look at who's in the running to be this year's Christmas Number One.
Kanye West paid $85,000 to license a photo of Whitney Houston’s drug-filled bathroom for the cover of Pusha T’s new album.
Meghan King Edmonds has given birth to twins.
Harvey Weinstein has been charged with rape and sexual misconduct.
It's been a year and a half in the making.
Find out more about TrendolizerTM at get.trendolizer.com
Olivia Munn is known for her roles in The Newsroom and Passengers, so it's no surprise that she's a style icon.
Pop star Shawn Mendes says he "hates" people who think he's gay.
Katy Perry surprised theater fans as she showed up to support Orlando Bloom on a whirlwind trip to London (Picture: Instagram)
The creators of Sesame Street are suing the production company behind The Happytime Murders, claiming the raunchy film could cause “irreparable injury” to the show’s brand.
They're one of Australia's best-loved TV couples, and now James and James are taking their show on the road.
All images subject to copyright.
Scott Disick and Sofia Richie are enjoying yet another luxury holiday to celebrate the reality star's 35th birthday.
She’s one of the most famous people in the world right now.
All images subject to copyright.
Do you remember The Bachelor?
All images subject to copyright.
One of the most prominent women to come forward with sexual assault allegations against Harvey Weinstein has distanced herself from another of his accusers.
A day after she apologised for a racist tweet comparing former key Obama aide Valerie Jarrett to ape, Roseanne Barr is lashing out against her "Roseanne" colleagues who denounced her on Twitter.
Pop star SZA has taken a break from her tour because of an injury to her voice.
If you're a Ross Geller fan, you'll know that the star of Curb Your Enthusiasm is in a relationship.
Reality TV star Kim Kardashian West arrives at the White House for a meeting on prison reform.
It's official... Javi Marroquin and Lauren Comeau are expecting their first child together!
Brian Lancaster was a former star of MTV's "Road Rules."
It’s been a long time coming.
More women have come forward with sexual misconduct claims against disgraced chef Mario Batali.
Goal setting is one of the most effective ways to achieve success in life.
What do you think about when you think about Sex and the City?
It's almost time for the third season of 13 Reasons Why!
This site uses cookies.
"Suddenly though- now that the Monster aka Harvey Weinstein- has turned himself in I'm 'validated.'"
All images are copyrighted.
Anne Hathaway has spoken out against the media’s habit of pitting women against each other.
The woman whose sexual assault accusations against Bill Cosby led to the entertainer’s conviction last month is breaking her silence after 13 years. Speaking publicly for the first time outside of a courtroom, Andrea Constand shared details about the night Cosby assaulted her during an exclusive interview with NBC’s Kate Snow for a special edition
"Glee" paid tribute to Cory Monteith, who died last month at the age of 31.
Late-night hosts have been poking fun at Roseanne Barr for blaming a drug for a racist tweet.
The "Bad Moms" star stopped by "The Ellen DeGeneres Show" on Thursday and shared moving highlights from the second season of her ellentube show, "Momsplaining With Kristen Bell."
All images are copyrighted.
The former Teen Mom OG star shared photos of her vacation in Dubai alongside her 9-year-old daughter, including one photo of Sophia enjoying a gold-flaked apple juice that was posted to the girl’s Instagram account.
Drake’s rival Pusha-T has responded to the rapper’s response to a photo of him in blackface.
Kim Kardashian West and Donald Trump’s son have been involved in a war of words over a newspaper’s “sexist” headline.
A selection of photos from around the world this week:
Kristen Bell is an American actress, dancer, singer, and film producer who has a net worth of $40 million.
A pop star meets an alien on the set of a reality TV show.
It was a night to remember at the 2023 CMT Music Awards.
It was a night to remember at the 2023 CMT Music Awards.
All images are copyrighted.
It’s been a year since Marvel’s Black Panther hit the big screen.
The contestant at the center of The Bachelorette‘s week-one, off-air controversy is apologizing for his “hurtful and offensive” social media history.
Jesse Williams and Taylor Rooks are trying to keep their relationship low-key, but did a terrible job of it Tuesday night as they slipped out of a strip club together!
It's that time of year again.
The cause of death for an actress who died earlier this year has been confirmed by the medical examiner's office.
Flip or Flop co-stars Tarek and Christina El Moussa are producing a new reality show with their business partner Bryan and Maira Segal.
The Fault in Our Stars star Shailene Woodley says she nearly turned her back on acting before Big Little Lies.
Ruthie Ann Miles returned to the stage for the first time after a car crash that took the life of her 5-year-old daughter and the loss of her unborn baby.
A Jeff Bridges highlights the latest trailer for Fox’s noir thriller “Bad Times at the El Royale,” portraying a decidedly unreligious priest at a run-down Lake Tahoe hotel on the California-Nevada border.
Check out Christina Aguilera’s new album Liberation below.
It's not easy being pregnant.
A selection of photos from around the world this week:
Ariana Grande shares her love letter to the LGBTQ community.
It's been a busy few weeks for the Kardashian-Jenner family, with Khloé giving birth to her first child, and Tristan Thompson being accused of cheating on her.
If you're a fan of reality TV, you're probably already familiar with one of the stars of the show.
In a series of videos posted on Thursday night, the 22-year-old Descendants 3 actress opened up about the sometimes dark side of social media and how it makes her feel.
What do you get if you mix Emma Stone, Jonathan Van Ness, and Justin Theroux?
All images are copyrighted.
Three more women have come forward to accuse Harvey Weinstein of sexual assault.
Queer Eye For The Straight Guy star AJ Brown is getting married!
Pop star Ashlee Simpson-Ross and husband Evan Ross talk about their new reality show, Ashlee+Evan.
Brad Paisley and Carrie Underwood will host the CMA Awards for the 11th year in a row.
It’s a boy!
Ryan Murphy’s dance musical drama Pose will return for a second season on FX in 2019.
Benedict Cumberbatch saved a delivery cyclist from muggers, as reported by UK newspaper The Sun on Saturday, June 2.
Becca Kufrin got engaged to Garrett Yrigoyen on the season finale of "The Bachelorette."
A selection of photos from around the world this week:
It's official: They're no longer together.
Bachelor in Paradise star Nick Viall says his former costar Jared Haibon is the best thing to ever happen to him.
The couple welcomed their first child, daughter Ella, in August.
What's the real reason Angelina Jolie hasn't been on the big screen recently?
Cruel Intentions co-stars Sarah Michelle Gellar and Selma Blair reunited for a sweet selfie at P!nk's LA concert this weekend at The Forum.
Kim Kardashian West and Kanye West’s daughter North West celebrated her fifth birthday with her cousin Penelope Disick.
Nick Jonas and Priyanka Chopra may not have officially commented on rumors regarding their relationship, but thanks to Instagram, it seems the duo's romance is heating up. Nick Jonas and Priyanka Chopra may not have officially commented on rumors regarding their relationship, but thanks to Instagram, it seems the duo's romance is heating
All images subject to copyright.
01 of 18 Tyler Hubbard and Brian Kelley of Florida Georgia Line perform on the Las Vegas Strip.
The cast of Grace and Frankie are hoping Dolly Parton will make an appearance on the show.
Shakira kicked off her El Dorado Tour at the United Center in Chicago on Friday night.
The Real Housewives of Atlanta star Kenya Moore has revealed she's pregnant with her first child.
All images are copyrighted.
A rep for Danielle Maltby tells E! News that the star was heartbroken over the news “Danielle was completely blindsided by this news.”
If you've ever wanted to know what it's like to be a Harry Potter fan, you've come to the right place.
Harvey Weinstein has pleaded not guilty to rape and criminal sex act charges.
It's been almost a month since Khloé Kardashian and Tristan Thompson announced the birth of their daughter, True Thompson.
Hollywood’s elite turned out Thursday night at the Dolby Theatre, home of the Oscars, to pay tribute to George Clooney, this year’s American Film Institute Life Achievement Award recipient. Hollywood’s elite turned out Thursday night at the Dolby Theatre, home of the Oscars, to pay tribute to George Clooney,
It’s no secret that country music is a male-dominated business, and it’s easy to see why.
All images are copyrighted.
The stars of the new Netflix series “Insecure” have opened up about the lack of roles written for African-Americans in Hollywood.
Abby Lee Miller is recovering after undergoing emergency surgery.
The following is a statement from Tapestry, Inc.
As Sex and the City marks its 10th anniversary, we take a look back at the best and worst of the series.
The stars of TV’s Fixer Upper have been fined for violating lead-paint regulations.
The fashion designer Kate Spade has died at the age of 55.
All images are copyrighted.
Mira Sorvino, one of the dozens of women to accuse Harvey Weinstein of sexual misconduct, opened up about the disgraced movie mogul being arrested and charged with rape and committing a criminal sex act, on Wednesday’s episode of Today.
Gigi Hadid and Zayn Malik were spotted kissing and walking arm in arm in New York's SoHo neighborhood, looking more in love than ever! Over the weekend, Gigi, 23, and Zayn, 25, were spotted kissing and walking arm in arm in New York's SoHo neighborhood, looking more in love than ever!
She's one of Hollywood's most famous actresses, but it seems Mandy Moore's life has been a bit up and down over the years.
It’s been a long time coming.
He’s one of Hollywood’s most famous actors, and he’s also one of its most famous fans.
All images are copyrighted.
Are you getting ready for your big day?
All photographs by Angela Hsieh /NPR.
The Hollywood Foreign Press Association (HFPA) has concluded its investigation into allegations of sexual harassment against its former president, Barry Berk, and proposed a joint statement that would absolve him of any wrongdoing, according to Fraser and Berk.
Ariana Grande and Pete Davidson are back on social media.
It's been almost a year since the couple welcomed daughter Rumi and son Sir, and they may have finally shared new pics of their bundles of joy during their On the Run II tour kickoff in Cardiff, Wales, on Wednesday.
We Should Listen to Palestinians, Not Selena Gomez (Or Other Cele...
This Is Us star Mandy Moore has revealed that her mother identifies as a lesbian.
It's that time of year again.
Sarah Jessica Parker says she still has “great memories” of her time on TV show ‘Sex and the City’.
It seems Beyoncé and Jay-Z have renewed their wedding vows.
It’s that time of year again: the return of Food Network Star.
Country star Dierks Bentley brought his daughter to the 2018 CMT Music Awards in Nashville on Wednesday night.
Taylor Swift takes another shot at her wholesome image in the new video Sugarland’s single “Babe,” playing a red-headed secretary who is having an affair with her married boss.
It’s a boy for Jeremy Meeks and Chloe Green.
Are you in love?
Haylie Duff is an American actress, TV presenter, film producer and businesswoman who has a net worth of $5 million.
Gladiator stars Russell Crowe, Connie Nielsen and Tomas Arana reunited in Rome to celebrate the film’s 18th anniversary.
Stars including Chrissy Teigen, Victoria Beckham and Giuliana Rancic looked dazzling as they arrived at the People’s Choice Awards ceremony, which honored achievement in film, TV, music, social media and other areas of pop culture.
Black-ish star Tracee Ellis Ross has told Vanity Fair that people should stop asking her questions about having kids.
It’s official: They’re back together.
A selection of photos from around the world this week:
It's that time of year again.
It’s all or nothing for John Cena and Nikki Bella.
The Duke and Duchess of Cambridge’s sister Pippa Middleton is expecting her first child with husband James Matthews.
"I just took a second to take it all in, and then we talked about it."
Chrissy Teigen, George Takei and Gordon Ramsay are among those paying tribute to Anthony Locatelli.
As the world mourns the death of celebrity chef and CNN presenter Anthony Kaysersberg, who was found dead in his hotel room in France on Friday, his girlfriend Asia Argento has released a statement saying she is "beyond devastated" by his death.
A selection of photos from around the world this week:
A big swirling bucket of the latest rumors, celebrity news and Hollywood gossip.
It was a date we'll never forget.
It’s a girl!
All pictures courtesy Candace Cameron Bure.
It's official: Hilary Duff is engaged to Matthew Koma. Koma co-wrote the song "Clarity" with frequent collaborator Zedd and it won the Grammy for Best Dance Recording at the 2014 Grammy Awards.
Travel Channel and CNN are among the networks that have announced plans to pay tribute to Anthony Locatelli over the weekend.
You know you’re doing something right when you don’t back down.
Chef Anthony Lefebvre, who appeared as a guest judge on ABC’s “The Taste,” has died at the age of 61.
How do you stop your clothes from fading?
Valentine’s Day is just around the corner, and we’ve put together a selection of the best Valentine’s Day gifts for you and your loved ones.
"Real Housewives of New Jersey" star Teresa Giudice showed off her rock-hard form when she competed in the Bikini Division of the NPC South Jersey Bodybuilding Championships on Saturday at Shawnee High School in Medford, New Jersey.
One Direction star Harry Styles has revealed he has lost 26lbs in just five weeks.
Carrie Underwood posted a hilarious video of her husband, hockey player Mike Fisher, trying to [...] Carrie Underwood posted a hilarious video of her husband, hockey player Mike Fisher, trying to sing to her new hit single "Cry Pretty" Saturday.
All images are copyrighted.
A series of deafening blasts during Eminem's Bonnaroo set Saturday night prompted several festival goers to criticize the hip hop artist for what they described as "gunshot" sound effects.
It wasn’t just her four daughters who cheered her on.
All images subject to copyright.
A selection of photos from around the world this week:
It's that time of year again.
The Tony Awards kicked off on Sunday night with a tribute to the people who have never won an award.
It's been a week since a prominent New York City restaurateur was found dead in his home.
Nicki Minaj and Future's NickiHndrxx Tour will begin in September and conclude in November.
Justin Bieber and Hailey Baldwin partied like it was 2015... looking very much like a couple turning up all over Miami.
It’s that time of year again: the Oscars.
All images are copyrighted.
Former Missouri State tight end Clay Harbor had a few tough breaks during Monday night's episode of "The Bachelorette." When the contestants took to the football field during a group date to impress Bachelorette Becca Kufrin, one might have thought it was Harbor's time to shine.
I don't know about you, but I've been having a hard time figuring out what's going on.
Controversial self-help group Nxivm has suspended operations following the high-profile arrests of Smallville actress Allison Mack and group co-founder Keith Raniere on sex trafficking and forced labor charges.
Ed Sheeran has unveiled his latest waxwork at Madame Tussauds, and it’s pretty spot-on.
Tom Hiddleston wore a tank top for Taylor Swift, now it’s Tom Brady’s turn!
A selection of photos from around the world this week:
The Parr family returns to the big screen in Incredibles 2, a film with Pixar's stamp of quality, which means the tropes are never just mere embellishments, but part of a larger ploy to tell a story with enormous heart and ingenuity.
A big swirling bucket of the latest rumors, celebrity news and Hollywood gossip.
A country music star and her husband are being sued by a former employee.
Pete Davidson's ex-girlfriends have been reacting to his engagement to Ariana Grande.
This week on Jane the Virgin, Little Jane has a lunch date with Dr. Ben, she meets a cat-sitter and Pinstripe is back!
It’s official.
Comedian Tiffany Haddish, star of theaddish-directed comedy Trainwreck, says she’s worried about her career.
It's down to two contestants on The Bachelor.
IDN POKER : Situs Judi Poker Online Terpercaya dan Terbesar di Asia IDN POKER menjadi pilihan dan opsi terbaik bagi para pecinta tar kartu  sesuai di Indonesia atau umuhanumnya di Asia.
It was Ashton Kutcher versus James Corden in an epic battle of burns, wit, and who could spit, as the men faced off in a heated "Drop The Mic" showdown Tuesday night.
The former Teen Mom 2 star has been arrested at the Beverly Hills Hotel.
It’s been a busy week for the Carter family.
Real Talk: Jada Pinkett Smith Remembers The Times She Had Suicidal Thoughts
She’s the hottest comedy star in Hollywood thanks to her breakout role in 2017’s Girls Trip, but Tiffany Haddish isn’t the type for whom you’d want to get technical.
Formula 1 world champion Lewis Hamilton says he has no intention of retiring at the end of the season.
All Op-Eds are copyrighted.
It’s been a busy year for Cardi B.
Kim Kardashian West and Alice Johnson meet for the first time since she was released from prison.
She’s used to owning the stage, but she was more than happy to be just another member of the audience while her kids took a turn in the spotlight at their dance recital.
Ever since Michael Jackson’s death in 2009, fans have been vandalizing his star on the Hollywood Walk of Fame.
It’s almost time for the Christmas release of one of the biggest superhero films of the year.
It's that time of year again.
You can unsubscribe at any time.
He’s the latest celebrity to show off his weight loss journey on Instagram.
A patient seeking the help of reality TV surgeons Paul Nassif and Terry Dubrow said a botched breast augmentation surgery left her with a dangerous bacterial infection, that eventually led to a double mastectomy.
Beyonce and Jay-Z are the world's highest paid married couple, according to Forbes magazine.
Miley Cyrus isn't messing around.
Ariana Grande and Pete Davidson may be engaged, but their former Sam & Cat co-star says they’re a good match.
The first trailer for American Horror Story: Apocalypse has been released and it's pretty epic.
What are your favourite things to do in Thailand?
All images are copyrighted.
It's been a decade since the release of The Twilight Saga.
From "Toy Story" to "Cars" to "Monsters, Inc.", Pixar has made some of the best animated films of all time. 'Monsters University' "Monsters, Inc." has one of the best endings of a Pixar film, so it was a good thing the studio didn’
The cast of Degrassi: The Next Generation has reunited for the first time in more than a decade.
Kim Kardashian West was by her husband Kanye West‘s side on Thursday as the two attended a listening party for Nas’ new album Nasir under the Queensboro Bridge in New York City.
Danny Masterson was fired from Netflix’s The Ranch in December and on Friday, June 15, audiences got to see his final episode.
One of E!’s most popular entertainment news shows is getting a new co-host.
All photographs  Lena Dunham.
Find out more about TrendolizerTM at get.trendolizer.com
All images subject to copyright.
This week’s episode of Queer Eye For The Straight Guy made me cry.
All photographs are copyrighted.
A Twitter feud between two former Bachelor contestants has gone from bad to worse.
A selection of photos from around the world this week:
Shakira and Gerard Piqué have announced they are separating after five years of marriage.
It's been a long time coming.
It’s almost time for Big Brother 20!
Beyonce and Jay-Z have released a joint album as The Carters.
All images are copyrighted.
It's been a whirlwind few weeks for one of the stars of Saturday Night Live.
James Van Der Beek and his wife, Kimberly, are now a family of seven!
Jennifer Garner has wished ex-husband Ben Affleck a happy Father’s Day on Instagram.
Adam Levine with wife Behati Prinsloo and daughter Dusty Rose, seen here after he was honoured with a star on the Hollywood Walk of Fame in Hollywood, California, on February 10, 2017.
Chris Cornell's daughter paid tribute to her late father on Father's Day with a duet of them singing a Prince hit.
He called his sons “assholes” and then passed out on the floor.
A big swirling bucket of the latest rumors, celebrity news and Hollywood gossip.
All photographs courtesy of AFP, EPA, Getty Images and Reuters
If you missed it, here’s your chance to catch up on all the best moments from the night.
How do you predict the future?
It’s been a busy few days for the new Duchess of Sussex.
It's a boy!
Check out the full list of films and TV shows coming to Netflix in July.
Orlando Bloom had the hots for Cate Blanchett when they filmed The Lord of the Rings together 19 years ago.
Miranda Lambert will perform at this year's Academy of Country Music Awards.
Check out the trailer for Creed II below.
In-televised Bachelor-based drama, Bachelor Nation’s Bekah Martinez is saying sorry to Raven Gates after the two embarked on a full-fledged Twitter feud.
It's that time of year again.
This site uses cookies.
All images are copyrighted.
All images are copyrighted.
If you're a fan of skateboarding, then this list of the best streetwear brands is just for you.
Find out more about TrendolizerTM at get.trendolizer.com
Kate Spade New York will donate more than $1 million to mental health causes and suicide prevention.
All images are copyrighted.
Comedians Steve Martin, Tom Hanks and Martin Short are getting ready to undergo a colonoscopy.
Jay Cutler’s wife, Kristin Cavallari, is having a lot of problems getting her homegoods business off the ground.
Tim McGraw and Faith Hill dish on their marriage secrets... and their pet peeves about each other.
Pop star Janet Jackson is opening up about life behind "The Velvet Rope" in a letter for Essence magazine previewed on the publication's website as well as "Good Morning America" Wednesday.
The CW has released its full fall schedule, which includes the premiere dates for Riverdale, Crazy Ex-Girlfriend, All American and Charmed.
It’s been a tough few weeks for Kylie Jenner and Travis Scott.
Michael McKean as Doug Forcett in The Good Place.
In the season finale of “Very Cavallari,” Kristin Cavallari demonstrates this in more ways than one.
A selection of photos from around the world this week:
"All of her life, Katy."
Nick Kroll's pants did a comedy bit of their own on Jimmy Kimmel Live on Wednesday night.
David and Victoria Beckham have been spotted out and about in Paris this week.
Koko, the gorilla who achieved worldwide fame and adoration after mastering sign language, has died at the age of 46.
The Broward County Sheriff's Office said in a statement Tuesday evening that 20-year-old Trayvon Newsome was taken into custody after surrendering at his lawyer's Fort Lauderdale office around 5 p.m.
Happy Birthday, Prince William!
It's not easy being in a relationship.
It's not every day you get to meet a puppet from Sesame Street, but that's exactly what happened in the latest episode of Unbreakable Kimmy Schmidt.
Love Island's Sophie Gradon has died at the age of 32. Love Island's Sophie Gradon has died at the age of 32 Love Island's Sophie Gradon has died at the age of 32
He's one of Hollywood's most enigmatic and enigmatic stars.
Jennifer Lawrence and Cooke Maroney were spotted holding hands on a late summer date in New York City on Sunday night.
A selection of photos from around the world this week:
As DJ Khaled prepares to release his 11th studio album, we take a look back at his most frequent collaborators.
In a new interview, Roseanne Barr says her character on The Conners will die of an opioid overdose.
Check out Sophie Turner’s explanation for getting a direwolf tattoo.
The second episode of ABC’s new reality show “The Proposal” is getting pulled after one of the contestants, Michael J. Friday, was accused by a woman of facilitating her sexual assault.
All images are copyrighted.
The Conner family is back.
A French prosecutor investigating the death of celebrity chef Anthony Suicide says it is "likely" that he had "a high consumption" of alcohol the night before he died.
Mandy Moore's California dream home is gorgeous and we all want to live there Mandy Moore is inviting fans inside her stunning new pad.
Marvel's Luke Cage ended its second season on Netflix on Sunday.
Kim Kardashian West is one of the most famous people in the world.
The world's most famous sports reporter has married the man of her dreams.
Kendall Jenner and Ben Simmons have been spotted out and about together in Los Angeles.
Did you watch Netflix this summer?
"Two weeks without you," she captioned the photo.
Emma Watson and Chord Overstreet are back together.
Will Smith is the latest celebrity to join Instagram and here are nine reasons why he's one of the most popular people on the platform.
If you're looking for the best foundation with SPF, you've come to the right place.
Gregg Leakes is best known as the husband of reality television star NeNe Leakes.
The Keeping Up with the Kardashians star and her model boyfriend Younes Bendjima were photographed sharing a sweet kiss on Friday, as they swam in the crystal clear blue waters off the coast of Capri.
All images subject to copyright.
It’s a girl!
Selena Gomez made an appearance at a cancer fundraiser in California on Saturday night.
Zsa Zsa the English bulldog has been crowned this year's World's Ugliest Dog.
The Kardashian-Jenner clan is one of the most famous families in the world.
All images are copyrighted.
Ben Affleck and Lindsay Shookus were seen going out to dinner with the producer’s parents in Santa Monica, California, on Saturday night.
It’s one of the most expensive homes in New York City.
A former "Melrose Place" actress has been arrested for the second time this year.
"Sometimes, you just know."
Prosecutors in Las Vegas have dropped a domestic battery case against Jersey Shore star Ronnie Ortiz-Magro’s ex-girlfriend.
All images are copyrighted.
Richard Harrison, the co-owner and founder of Rick Harrison’s Gold & Silver Pawn Shop, died on Monday, June 25, at 77, the Harrison family confirmed to Us Weekly.
The winners for the 2018 People's Choice Awards were announced at the Galen Center in Los Angeles on Wednesday.
Fred Astaire and Fred Astaire's son Fred Astaire and Fred Astaire's daughter Fred Astaire and Fred Astaire's son Fred Astaire and Fred Astaire's grandson Fred Astaire and Fred Astaire's son Fred As
It's official: Cardi B and Offset are married.
The 25-year-old singer has been open about her struggle with drugs and alcohol since their first stint in rehab in 2010.
In the new Harry Potter spin-off, Harry Potter and the Cursed Child, JK Rowling has revealed the character’s real name.
Happy birthday, Ariana Grande!
Jimmy Fallon kicked off his show Monday by addressing President Donald Trump's Twitter attacks on him - and he had a simple question for the president: "Why are you tweeting at me?"
It’s that time of year again.
"The Conners" is set to premiere on ABC on Tuesday, following the cancellation of "Roseanne" earlier this year.
It's not every day you get to share your beauty secrets with the world, but that's exactly what Jenna Dewan has done.
It’s been a rough few months for The Real Housewives of New York City.
It’s been a roller-coaster year for Bachelor and Bachelorette fans.
Bachelor in Paradise couple Jordan Kimball and Jenna Cooper have called off their June TV wedding after she was accused of cheating on him.
After a roller coaster relationship captured on reality TV, Bachelor in Paradise stars Ashley Iaconetti and Jared Haibon are engaged... and fans will get to see the proposal play out in season 5 of the hit ABC show.
Stephen Colbert and Jimmy Fallon opened The Late Show and The Tonight Show using the same cold open, which also guest starred Conan O’Brien, whose own program on TBS is on hiatus this week.
It’s been a long time coming.
All images subject to copyright.
A selection of photos from around the world this week:
A former Real Housewives of New York City star made a surprise appearance on Lip Sync Battle on Wednesday night.
If you’ve ever had to explain to someone that you didn’t watch a television show, you’ll know what I’m talking about.
We can't believe it's been 40 years!
Kristen Bell is an American actress, dancer, singer, and film producer who has a net worth of $40 million.
Sam Smith opens up about his split from Brandon Flynn at his concert in Brooklyn, New York, on Wednesday (June 27).
It seems George Clooney isn’t the only one to blame for Brad Pitt and Jennifer Aniston’s split.
Scarlett Johansson denies auditioning to date Tom Cruise.
I've been a huge fan of lightweight foundation alternatives for a long time.
The Queen is feeling under the weather!
Kanye West and Kylie Jenner have been named the most influential people on the Internet by TIME magazine.
"Every single time I'm doing my makeup I have to put her on the counter next to the sink and we're doing it together."
"The Conners" is set to premiere on ABC on Tuesday, following the cancellation of "Roseanne" earlier this year.
When Ariana Grande and Pete Davidson dance together, it is cute.
Garth Brooks Says He'll 'Send a Plane' to Travis Kelce So He Can Sing 'Friends in Low Places' at His Bar Opening
Jetsetter is the world's leading source for aviation news and information.
Kaley Cuoco married Karl Cook at an intimate wedding at a horse stable near San Diego, California, attended by close friends and family, PEOPLE confirms.
As GLOW returns for its second season on Netflix, the actress who plays one of the show’s main characters explains how her character begins to break out from her family’s overprotective tendencies and her own self-doubt to put her foot in the light of confidence.
The Flip or Flop star has been dating the British TV personality since last November, and it may not be long before the couple makes their relationship official. The Flip or Flop star has been dating the British TV personality since last November, and it may not be long before the couple makes their relationship official.
The youngest daughter of Russell and Kimora Simmons has spoken out about being bullied online.
If you’re a Drag Race fan, you’ve probably seen the video above.
One of the biggest boy bands in the world has come out of retirement to perform in front of a live audience.
Drake's new song, "Finesse," has some wondering if he's referring to Bella Hadid.
If you’re a Backstreet Boys fan, you’re in for a treat.
Cult horror series Cult will return for a second season in the autumn, its creator has confirmed.
Jessica Lange is returning to “American Horror Story.” Sarah Paulson announced that Lange would be in the show’s upcoming eighth season during the TCA summer press tour on Friday, in the role of Constance Langdon.
I Am Jazz star Jazz Jennings reveals she is undergoing gender confirmation surgery.
It’s a girl!
Megan Fox and Brian Austin Green are expecting their third child.
Kim Kardashian West breaks down in tears as she pays tribute to her makeup artist, Mario Dedivanovic.
Shameless stars Jeremy Allen White and Addison Timlin have welcomed their first child, a baby girl named Ezer Billie White, Timlin confirmed while sharing the newborn’s first photo via Instagram on Sunday.
Check out Jada Pinkett Smith’s top beauty tips for keeping your skin blemish-free.
The Office actor Hugh Dane, who portrayed beloved security guard Hank on the NBC comedy, died from pancreatic cancer, according to his death certificate, which was obtained by TMZ.
Neve Campbell and JJ Feild have adopted a baby boy!
He's one of the biggest names in hip-hop, so it's no surprise Drake hit up a nightclub in Florida to celebrate the release of his new album.
It's a girl!
It's Stormi's first birthday today, and Kylie Jenner is wishing her the best.
Johnny Galecki "couldn't be happier" for his newly married Big Bang Theory co-star, Kaley Cuoco!
Sometimes you just have to go with the flow.
LeBron James to the Lakers: an actual reaction!
A shooting outside of a Toronto nightclub on Saturday (June 30) has claimed the life of 21-year-old rapper Smoke Dawg, a representative confirms to Billboard.
As American Horror Story fans prepare for the return of Murder House and Coven in September, there's one show that's keeping its secrets tight.
Barbra Streisand and James Brolin were married in 1998 in the intimate setting of Streisand's Maibu, California living room in the presence of 105 guests, including the likes of John Travolta and wife Kellly Preston, record producer Quincy Jones and Streisand's 89-year-old mother.
Who do you think will win at this year's ESPYS?
Mila Kunis reads some of her best lines from That ‘70s Show in Cosmopolitan!
Pop star Cheryl Cole has denied reports that her mother played a role in her split from Liam Payne.
One of Princess Diana's most iconic outfits is going up for auction.
'I can't wait to see the goodness that will come from their union.'
"Sometimes it's the little things that make a big difference."
It’s been a busy few weeks for the Kardashian/Jenner clan.
Register WE963PDX.COM for free.
"I don't know, we'll see."
All images subject to copyright.
A former co-star of Kevin Spacey says the actor sexually harassed him on set.
It’s a boy for ‘The Bachelor’ couple Chris and Peyton Lambton!
Halsey and G-Eazy are taking time apart, the singer has confirmed.
Jersey Shore star Ronnie Ortiz-Magro’s ex Jen Harley will not face domestic battery charges following their physical altercation.
Katharine McPhee and David Foster are engaged.
Butterbeer ice cream is coming to the Wizarding World of Harry Potter at Universal Studios Hollywood.
Tina Turner’s oldest son, Craig Turner, has died by suicide, PEOPLE confirms.
They’re back!
All images are copyrighted.
The Kardashian sisters were living their best lives during their Fourth Of July celebrations on Wednesday.
"None of it is real."
It’s been a bad week for a comedian.
It's been a week of controversy on Big Brother, with three contestants being sent home after being accused of racism.
One of Princess Diana's most iconic outfits is going up for auction.
Dan Reynolds is the lead singer of the rock band Imagine Dragons.
How did MTV get the idea for ‘The Challenge’?
The first trailer for the sixth season of Netflix’s prison drama “Orange Is the New Black” has arrived, and it’s chock-full of drama.
A selection of photos from around the world this week:
It's not every day you get to see Kendall Jenner and Ben Simmons kissing in public.
Check it out...
Justin Timberlake and Jessica Biel’s three-year-old son has been the subject of a social media storm after a photo of him kissing his mother went viral.
Carrie Underwood and Mike Fisher celebrate their wedding anniversary on July 10, and the country superstar and former NHL player have a whole lotta life to look back on.
"Good luck with your blog."
She’s best known for her role in the TV series “Felicity.”
Jill Zarin is an American real estate agent and reality television personality who has a net worth of $20 million.
As House of Cards returns for its final season without its former star, Kevin Spacey, many fans are looking for closure. With House of Cards returning for its final season without its former star, Kevin Spacey, many fans are looking for closure.
The Hollywood producer at the heart of the sexual assault scandal has been charged with a new crime.
The Duke and Duchess of Cambridge with Prince George and Princess Charlotte at St James's Palace in 2013.
Starbucks says it will eliminate plastic straws from all of its stores by 2020.
Footage from a 2014 airing of the British show, The X Factor, shows Mel putting former cohost Louis Walsh his place after he grabbed her butt.
Halsey and G-Eazy are taking time apart, the singer has confirmed.
All images are copyrighted.
The Duke and Duchess of Sussex joined other members of the royal family for the Festival of Remembrance Service at Royal Albert Hall on Sunday.
If you've ever wondered why someone doesn't follow you back on social media, you've come to the right place.
Taylor Swift has revealed her worst night out in a new video for her song “Look What You Made Me Do.”
Before Hailey Baldwin called herself Justin Bieber‘s fiancée, she was just another fan singing his praises on Twitter - and shipping his relationship with Selena Gomez.
The country star and his wife, Brittany, announced the news via Instagram on July 10 with a photo of his 7-month-old son, Memphis, lounging in a onesie that reads: Big Brother.
All images are copyrighted.
Meghan Markle attempted to reach for Prince Harry’s hand as they walked behind the Queen.
Justin Bieber and Hailey Baldwin are engaged to be married.
It’s been a busy week for the Duchess of Sussex.
It's not every day you get to share a stage with a man who describes himself as "damaged".
Check out Lindsay Lohan’s body double in The Parent Trap!
Drake has been spotted cheering on his ex, Serena Williams, at Wimbledon. Serena Williams' ex, rapper Drake, watches her win at Wimbledon, tennis star headed to semifinals When tennis champion Serena Williams competed Tuesday at Wimbledon, eventually defeating Italian tennis player Camila Giorgi, she had an old friend cheering her on -- her
It's that time of year again.
Kevin Hart and Mike Epps have taken their beef to Instagram’s comment section.
Aaron Armstrong, the boyfriend of former Miss Great Britain Sophie Gradon, has been found dead.
Iggy Azalea has a new man in her life!
All images subject to copyright.
Selena Gomez's mom, Mandy Teefey, has shared a throwback video of the singer as a young girl, and it's pretty sweet.
"This Is Us," "The Handmaid's Tale" and "Westworld" are all nominated for best drama.
The actor George Clooney has been injured in a crash with a car on the Italian island of Sardinia.
The TelevisionAcademy.com sites look and perform best when using a modern browser.
Game of Thrones has gone to great lengths to keep secrets for its upcoming final season.
After months of speculation, Cardi B has finally revealed the name of her baby girl.
Chrissy Teigen’s two-year-old daughter, Luna, has taken over Chrissy’s latest video.
We’ve been using TinyBeans as a family for nearly 5 years.
All photographs by Dave Itzkoff.
The nominations for the 70th Emmy Awards were announced on Thursday morning.
Whether you’re heading to the beach for the first time or you’ve been there for years, we’ve got you covered with these 50 beach quotes.
It's official: Meghan Markle's signature has changed.
It's the 20th anniversary of one of TV's most popular sitcoms.
The Hills may be coming back, but there’s one thing we don’t know for sure.
On Monday’s season premiere of The Real Housewives of Orange County, Shannon removed her wedding ring after 17 years of marriage.
How did Jersey Shore stars Ronnie Ortiz-Magro and Jen Harley break up?
Back in March, Michael Sheen told TheWrap he would have “100 percent confidence” in the creator of a possible “West Wing” revival.
Sandra Oh is the first Asian actor ever to receive an Emmy nomination in the best actress category.
Tony Anthony, the late host of CNN’s travel show "Parts Unknown," has won an Emmy.
All images are copyrighted.
It's one of the most coveted awards in show business: EGOT.
If there’s one thing Handmaid’s Tale fans know for sure, it’s that June will always be there for them.
All images are copyrighted.
It’s all new, so new, but it’s kind of exiting at the same time.
It's no secret that Ryan Gosling and Eva Mendes are in love, but how much do you know about their relationship?
It’s that time of year again.
Over60 News brings you the best of the BBC News website in one place.
On the slopes, Lindsey Vonn was a bust at the 2018 Winter Olympics.
The Hills may be coming back, but there’s one thing we don’t know for sure.
The nominations for the 70th annual Emmy Awards have been announced in Los Angeles.
It's been a busy day for President Donald Trump and his wife, Melania.
"I could cry talking about it."
President Donald Trump and first lady Melania Trump shake hands with Queen Elizabeth II at Windsor Castle on Friday.
A former soap opera actor has been found guilty of child molestation.
The actress who was set to play a transgender crime boss in a film has pulled out of the project.
The actress who plays Sabrina the Teenage Witch in the new Netflix series Chilling Adventures of Sabrina has shared the first photo from the show on Twitter.
If you've ever had wisdom teeth pulled, you'll know the pain can be pretty bad.
The former co-host of NBC's "Today" show is no longer with his wife.
Kate Upton and Justin Verlander are expecting their first child together.
It's one of the most prized possessions a man can own.
Taylor Swift bore witness to a real-life “Love Story” on Friday, July 13, as two attendees of her concert in Philadelphia got engaged during a meet-and-greet with the 28-year-old singer.
Justin Bieber and Selena Gomez have reportedly called off their engagement after two years together.
All images are copyrighted.
Lauren Burnham and Arie Luyendyk Jr.
In case you missed it, here’s a video of Davidson and his girlfriend attending a concert.
Blink-182 drummer Travis Barker was involved in a "really bad car accident."
All images subject to copyright.
Bachelor in Paradise star Wells Adams took girlfriend Sarah Hyland to her high school reunion before they flew to Mexico for a vacation.
If you're reading this on social media, I have a message for you.
It’s going to be a long wait for Stranger Things season 3, but Netflix assures it will be worth it.
Beyoncé and Jay-Z's On the Run II tour was in for a presidential treat over the weekend.
The 2018 MTV Video Music Awards will air live from Radio City Music Hall in New York City on Monday, August 20 at 9 p.m.
A former reality star has died.
Who is Lele Pons and why is she hosting the Teen Choice Awards?
If you've ever wanted to perform in front of a live audience, then you've come to the right place.
Khloé Kardashian says she has lost 33 lbs in the three months since she gave birth to daughter True, her first child, on April 12.
"Rugrats" fans, rejoice: The beloved cartoon "Rugrats" is coming back.
Kourtney Kardashian's boyfriend, Younes Bendjima, is complaining about her sharing a hot thong photo on Instagram.
Jay Cutler wants to buy a new house in Nashville, and he’s willing to share his home with a bunch of goats if it means he can move. Jay Cutler wants to buy a new house in Nashville, and he’s willing to share his home with a bunch of goats if it means he can
It's been a busy few days for one of the Kardashians.
On Monday night's episode of The Bachelor, Becca Kufrin and Garrett Yrigoyen had their first fantasy suite date, and it was pretty intense.
A selection of photos from around the world this week:
All images are copyrighted.
Taylor Swift and Meghan McCain teamed up to make one special fan’s dream come true!
Tom Brady and Gisele Bndchen have sold their New York City apartment for $13.95 million.
"Game of Thrones" and "Westworld" will not be presenting panels at this year's Comic-Con.
Ciara releases her first single in two years.
"Glee" paid tribute to Cory Monteith, who died last month at the age of 31.
Jude Law talks about his new role as Albus Dumbledore in JK Rowling’s Fantastic Beasts: The Crimes of Grindelwald.
All images are copyrighted.
It wasn’t meant to be.
All images are copyrighted.
The title for the sequel to "Fantastic Beasts and Where to Find Them" has been revealed.
It’s that time of year again.
It's Stormi's first birthday today, and Kylie Jenner is wishing her the best.
All pictures subject to copyright.
Pop star Ariana Grande is giving us whiplash with her hairstyles lately, and we honestly love it.
It's that time of year again.
It’s that time of year again.
She’s one of the most famous female athletes in the world, and now she’s also one of the most famous female comedians.
Check out Amanda Seyfried’s hilarious rendition of ABBA’s “Hula Prince” on The Tonight Show.
She’s one of the most famous women in the world, but it turns out Diane von Furstenberg isn’t a fan of Viagra.
For her first onscreen film role in three years, Jennifer Lopez slips seamlessly back into a genre she used to dominate: the lightweight comedy.
A selection of photos from around the world this week:
The Real Housewives of New York City returns for its 10th season on Monday night on Bravo.
A big swirling bucket of the latest rumors, celebrity news and Hollywood gossip.
Tiffany Haddish is trying to get Kevin Hart to return the money he loaned her when she was living in his car.
If you're on the hunt for the perfect in-flight outfit this season, you've come to the right place.
A sexual harassment lawsuit filed by an actress against Harvey Weinstein is "utterly without merit", his lawyers say.
McDonald's is giving away free medium fries with a $1 purchase every Friday from now until the end of 2018.
It’s that time of year again when you’re sweating it out in the gym.
The Hollywood Reporter will not share your personal information with third parties.
Ariana Grande defends her decision to name a song after her fiancé Pete Davidson.
All images are copyrighted.
Pop star Jason Mraz is opening up about his sexuality, revealing in an interview with Billboard that his wife, Christina Carano, helped him embrace his sexual identity, which he explored during their relationship.
A selection of photos from around the world this week:
Flip or Flop co-stars Tarek and Christina El Moussa are producing a new reality show with their business partner Bryan and Maira Segal.
All pictures are copyrighted.
A selection of the most popular products on Amazon.
The director of the third Guardians of the Galaxy film has been fired over old tweets.
A selection of photos from around the world this week:
Film director Kevin Smith, who grew up in Red Bank, lost 51 pounds after suffering a heart attack in February.
A selection of photos from around the world this week:
"It's unfortunate that anyone can file a police report whether it is true or false," says a statement sent to USA TODAY on Sunday by Cindy Guagenti, the actor's representative.
All images are copyrighted.
A selection of photos from around the world this week:
It’s been a year and a half since they called it quits, but it looks like Bella Hadid and The Weeknd are back together.
It’s that time of year again.
Pop star Taylor Swift has added some singing firepower to her Reputation stadium tour, announcing that Charli XCX and Camila Cabello will perform as opening acts.
Ariana Grande's ex Mac Miller says he's "happy for her in moving forward with her life, just as I'm sure she is with me."
He's one of the world's top IndyCar drivers, and now he's got a bride-to-be!
"Stranger Things" star Millie Bobby Brown says she turns to Drake for advice. Millie Bobby Brown explains why she and Drake 'talk all the time' Millie Bobby Brown and Drake may seem like unlikely friends, but the young star of "Stranger Things" says she turns to the rapper all the time for advice.
The world has lost one of its most famous tuna fishermen.
All images are copyrighted.
The new season of The Real Housewives of Orange County begins tonight on Bravo.
Sandra Bullock and Bryan Randall are not married.
It all started with the second season of The Big Bang Theory.
It's not every day you get to share a photo of your baby with the world, but that's exactly what Kim Kardashian and Kanye West did.
A Halloween party at the 'Scream' house?
She's the latest star to take a break from social media.
Former secretaries of state Hillary Clinton, Colin Powell and Madeleine Albright offered their fictional successor Elizabeth McCord some advice on the rise of white nationalism in America Sunday on CBS’s “Madam Secretary.”
Pop star Demi Lovato is "awake and with her family" following an apparent drug overdose.
Lovato's former "Camp Rock" co-star Joe Jonas says he's "sending huge recovery love" to the singer.
Singer Demi Lovato is awake and with her family after being hospitalization earlier Tuesday, according to a statement from the singer’s representative.
Check out these must-have handbags for the season ahead.
Singer Demi Lovato has been taken to hospital after an apparent drug overdose.
Demi Lovato's mother, Dianna de la Garza, has spoken out for the first time since her daughter's near-fatal overdose.
Karlie Kloss shows off her massive engagement ring from her venture capitalist fiancé Josh Kushner hours after the news broke that he “proposed a few weeks ago during a romantic weekend together in upstate New York.”
It was a bittersweet moment for one star.
This Is Us creator Dan Fogelman tells us what we can expect from the show’s third season.
Photos courtesy of Tarek El Moussa
Britney Spears brought Andy Cohen on stage at her concert in New York City on Tuesday night, and it seems like she forgot his name. As Entertainment Tonight pointed out, Britney Spears brought Andy Cohen on stage at her Radio City Music Hall concert in New York City on Tuesday night, and it seems like she either forgot
All images are copyrighted.
Madison Hildebrand is leaving Million Dollar Listing Los Angeles.
Rachel Platten is pregnant with her first child with husband Kevin Lazan, she announced Wednesday on Instagram, sharing a bare baby-bump photo.
Courtney Barnett is one of the few public figures who doesn’t claim to have all the answers.
It's that time of year again.
It’s one of the most anticipated royal weddings of the year.
“Ordinary examples of racism that happen every single day,” Jarrett said.
Michael Bublé’s wife, Luisana Lopilato, has given birth to their third child, a baby girl.
Kate Upton and Justin Verlander are expecting their first child together.
Dolly Parton, Lily Tomlin and Jane Fonda are ready to punch the clock once again as a sequel to their 1980 comedy 9 to 5 is in the works.
It’s one of the most talked-about breakups of the year.
A selection of photos from around the world this week:
Kim Zolciak-Biermann is planning to get smaller breast implants after she asked her fans to cast their votes in a poll on what size they think she should reduce to.
President Donald Trump's eldest son has reached a custody agreement with his estranged wife, according to a New York judge.
He may have quit his university photography course earlier this month, but it appears Brooklyn Beckham is showing no signs of giving up on his passion of working behind the lens.
It all started with the Jonas Brothers.
It's one of the most anticipated celebrity romances of the year.
If you’ve ever wondered who Robert Langdon is, you’ve come to the right place.
Tina Turner's son, Craig Raymond Turner, took his own life earlier this month at the age of 49.
Jacqueline Bouvier Kennedy Onassis was the first lady of the United States from 1961 to 1994.
Cult horror series Cult will return for a second season in the autumn, its creator has confirmed.
Kevin Jonas and his wife Danielle Deleasa have announced they're expecting their first child together.
A selection of photos from around the world this week:
A selection of photos from around the world this week:
She wanted a boy so badly.
All images are copyrighted.
Taylor Swift gave hundreds of free tickets to local police officers and firefighters following the tragic death of Weymouth Sgt.
The Real Housewives of New York City star announced on Saturday that she would be returning from the alcohol treatment facility after three weeks to take the stage for her acclaimed show next month.
The cast and crew of Full House celebrated Lori Loughlin's 30th birthday on Saturday, and John Stamos was there to wish her a happy birthday.
All pictures subject to copyright.
Beyonce and Jay-Z made a surprise appearance at a Washington Redskins game on Sunday.
Paris Hilton has called Lindsay Lohan a “pathological liar.”
It’s all about the water!
If you're a fan of The Bachelor or The Bachelorette, you're probably wondering which couple is Chris Harrison rooting for.
It’s been a long time coming.
Kim Kardashian West has apologised for comments she made on Keeping Up With The Kardashians, in which she and her sisters mocked an eating disorder called anorexia.
For a hundred years, movies have been a popular art form.
It's almost wedding season!
The How to Get Away with Murder actress is getting married!
"I don’t know anything about her personally, but I’d tell her to have good people around her and a willingness to want to live a different way if that’s what she wants to do."
Chris Pratt and his fellow Guardians of the Galaxy stars have released an open letter in support of ousted director James Gunn.
It is a disgusting show of transphobia that has no place in our public schools; the GOP must accept that America is a multi-gendered, multi-ethnic nation, and no amount of perverted laws is going to change that.
A selection of photos from around the world this week:
Find out more about TrendolizerTM at get.trendolizer.com
All images are copyrighted.
A selection of photos from around the world this week:
After eight years in the White House, Barack Obama is leaving behind one thing that no future president will be able to touch.
A selection of photos from around the world this week:
A selection of photos from around the world this week:
"I'm from Nigeria, I'm from Nigeria, I'm from Nigeria, I'm from Nigeria, I'm from Nigeria, I'm from Nigeria, I'm from Nigeria, I'm from Nigeria, I'm from Nigeria, I'm from Nigeria, I
A fake news website is claiming Trump's recent executive order on immigration has lead to the capture of a terror suspect named Rasheed Muhammad.
A selection of photos from around the world this week:
What are the best performance-enhancing drugs for bodybuilders?
The new president of the National Rifle Association (NRA) has been accused of making racist remarks.
A selection of photos from around the world this week:
What are the best performance-enhancing drugs for bodybuilders?
A man recently pardoned by former President Barack Obama was shot and killed by two men with assault-style rifles.
The former president of the United States, Barack Obama, has been arrested in Canada.
A 16-year-old babysitter in Missouri has been arrested on suspicion of child endangerment after allegedly smoking crystal meth and cooking a baby in the microwave.
A selection of photos from around the world this week:
A selection of photos from around the world this week:
Find out more about TrendolizerTM at get.trendolizer.com
The Wilmington Regional Film Commission, Inc., takes up the mantle of marketing southeastern North Carolina’s many assets and location advantages to the industry; our staff knows the region inside and out, and can use working local knowledge to navigate everything from site location to scouting and production logistics.
A selection of photos from around the world this week:
If you’re ever in Boston, you’ll know that drugging and scuba diving are not mutually exclusive.
United Airlines is under fire for the second time in as many days.
Republican presidential front-runner and billionaire entrepreneur Donald Trump on Thursday unveiled his plan to ‘make the military great again,’ saying he intends to reinstate the draft as part of a larger effort to bolster America’s armed forces.
Former Alaska Governor Sarah Palin is in a coma after being hit by a hit and run driver.
Find out more about TrendolizerTM at get.trendolizer.com
The 17-year-old daughter of US President Barack Obama has been arrested in Chicago.
Greg Hunter is the producer and creator of USAWatchdog.com.
Is Lance Armstrong back in Austin?
It’s not every day you get to vote at the age of 112.
A selection of photos from around the world this week:
patriotcrier.com
Televangelist Pat Robertson recently repeated his prediction that LGBT rights will provoke God to destroy America's financial markets, warning "The 700 Club" viewers that God's wrath is on its way.
Find out more about TrendolizerTM at get.trendolizer.com
Brooke Lacey was only 22 years old, but her will to help others was enough to do just that.
BBC Sport takes a look back at some of the most memorable moments from this year's FA Cup.
It’s that time of year again.
Police in Florida have arrested 3-practicing cannibals who claim eating human flesh cures both type-1 and type-2 diabetes and depression.
The death of a worker who was accidentally cooked in a pressure cooker at a Southern California tuna processing plant has led to criminal charges.
A selection of photos from around the world this week:
President Barack Obama and Leonardo DiCaprio talk climate change at the White House.
In our series of letters from African journalists, filmmaker and columnist Farai Sevenzo looks at the issue of government over-reach.
Ten people are dead after a shooting at a warehouse in Florida.
A selection of photos from around the world this week:
A selection of photos from around the world this week:
The capture of a huge great white shark in Lake Michigan yesterday could explain the disappearance of missing people in the area in the last decade, has confirmed the U.S.
Here are 10 facts about Nancy Pelosi, the first female speaker of the US House of Representatives.
Fox News host Shepard Smith slammed what he called "lies" and "deception" pushed by Donald Trump Jr.
More than half a million girls in the western Indian state of Maharashtra are now enrolled in higher education.
A selection of photos from around the world this week:
A selection of photos from around the world this week:
A selection of photos from around the world this week:
A selection of photos from around the world this week:
In the wake of the violence in Charlottesville, Virginia, the left has been trying to link President Donald Trump to white supremacists.
During the swine flu pandemic, our politicians were able to delay the inevitable.
A selection of photos from around the world this week:
Sports betting is now legal in New York.
NBA betting sites have the Golden State Warriors shooting guard Jordan Poole as the favourite to win the NBA Sixth Man of the Year award this season.
A mosque in Georgia is under fire after they solicited donations allegedly for victims of Hurricane Harvey but decided to keep them and send them to a different kind of refugee instead.
Find out more about TrendolizerTM at get.trendolizer.com
A selection of photos from around the world this week:
What is a law?
All images are copyrighted.
Pittsburgh Steelers left tackle Alejandro Villanueva has been fined $1m by the NFL for his refusal to stand for the national anthem.
Twelve More Hurricanes Headed Towards US This is a satirical website.
Washington State Legislature votes to change its name because George Washington owned Slaves
In our series of letters from African-American journalists, filmmaker, and columnist, filmmaker, and columnist, filmmaker, and columnist, filmmaker, and columnist, filmmaker, and columnist, filmmaker, and columnist, filmmaker, and columnist, filmmaker, and columnist, filmmaker, and columnist, filmmaker, and columnist, filmmaker
More than half a million girls in the western Indian state of Maharashtra are now enrolled in higher education.
Find out more about TrendolizerTM at get.trendolizer.com
President Donald Trump has revoked the tax-exempt status of the National Football League.
A selection of photos from around the world this week:
More than half a million girls in the western Indian state of Maharashtra are now enrolled in higher education.
A selection of photos from around the world this week:
.
The University of Alabama's football team has been disqualified from this year's national championship game because of an academic cheating scandal.
The University of Florida is looking to cancel their annual rivalry game against the Florida State Seminoles.
Snapchat is shutting down!
All images are copyrighted.
This account has been suspended.
.
The US Department of Justice has filed a lawsuit against the Muslim community in the state of Michigan, accusing them of running a multi-million dollar fraud scheme.
.
In case you missed it, here’s a refresher: Gloria Allred is nothing but a fame-seeking fraud.
Facebook has shut down a story on Judge Roy Moore’s accuser.
A selection of photos from around the world this week:
Acellular Pertussis Vaccines (For Manufacturing Use) are produced by The Research Foundation for Microbial Diseases of Osaka University (Acellular Pertussis Vaccines (For Manufacturing Use) are produced by The Research Foundation for Microbial Diseases of Osaka University (Acellular Pertussis
Voters in Texas go to the polls on Tuesday to choose their preferred candidate for president.
Find out more about TrendolizerTM at get.trendolizer.com
Ravi Bhalla was elected Hoboken’s 39th Mayor on November 7, 2017 out of a field of six candidates.
Find out more about TrendolizerTM at get.trendolizer.com
Find out more about TrendolizerTM at get.trendolizer.com
Police in Alabama say that they have busted a massive meth lab that was being run by Walmart employees in what they are calling one of the biggest busts in decades.
Reese's peanut butter cups are coming to an end!
President Donald Trump has been one of the best presidents I’ve served under, says former NBA star Shaquille O’Neal.
A selection of photos from around the world this week:
Here is the full text of House Speaker Nancy Pelosi’s remarks on the state of the union:
The Office of Presidential Libraries is responsible for the overall administration of the Presidential Library System.
The parents of two murdered New York girls were booed by Democrats during President Trump’s State of the Union address.
.
All images are copyrighted.
He was one of the last living people of the film industry’s Golden Age.
The US Consumer Product Safety Commission (CPSC) has announced a voluntary recall of children’s magnetic ball sets.
Find out more about TrendolizerTM at get.trendolizer.com
Here is the full text of the statement issued by the US Food and Drug Administration (FDA) Commissioner Scott Gottlieb:
Find out more about TrendolizerTM at get.trendolizer.com
It's almost time for the next presidential election.
Miley Cyrus threatened to move out of the country if Donald Trump is elected president.
Former presidents Barack Obama, George W. Bush, Jimmy Carter, Bill Clinton and George W. Bush have all spoken out against President Donald Trump since he took office in January.
A selection of photos from around the world this week:
A selection of photos from around the world this week:
.
Life jackets are an essential part of yacht safety.
A deposition of the woman who accused Greitens of taking a nude photo of her reveals one new shocking bit of evidence.
A selection of photos from around the world this week:
NFL fans in the United States will soon be able to bet on their team’s games via Amazon’s Prime Video service.
You might have to train your taste buds to get used to horse meat soon, because FYI: The U.S. government just approved the operation of horse meat slaughterhouses to produce meat for human consumption.
An offer to participate in an online survey to get free Delta Airline tickets is a scam.
.
Massachusetts has become the fourth state in the US to approve sports betting.
A selection of photos from around the world this week:
In the wake of last week’s mass shooting at a high school in Florida, which left 17 people dead and many more injured, gun-control advocates in Washington, DC, are once again turning their backs on law-abiding gun owners.
A selection of photos from around the world this week:
A selection of photos from around the world this week:
All images are copyrighted.
A fake news article said actress Sandra Bullock praised President Donald Trump while telling Hillary Clinton she could leave the United States if she isn’t happy with how things are going.
Melania Trump underwent kidney surgery Monday at Walter Reed National Military Medical Center near Washington, DC, according to a statement from her office.
NBA betting sites have the Golden State Warriors shooting guard Jordan Poole as the favourite to win the NBA Sixth Man of the Year award this season.
Attorney General Jeff Sessions has recused himself from any existing or future investigations of any matters related in any way to the campaigns for President of the United States.
A selection of photos from around the world this week:
.
A selection of photos from around the world this week:
Donald Trump’s approval rating is higher than that of Barack Obama and Ronald Reagan at the same point in their presidencies.
Canada’s largest province has released its first-ever sports betting revenue figures.
President Barack Obama is holding secret meetings at the White House.
It all started in Texas.
A selection of photos from around the world this week:
A selection of photos from around the world this week:
.
.
.
The US Senate's website contains a wide range of information about the Senate, its members, and the legislative process.
The owner of the Miss USA pageant has compared the runner-up to President Barack Obama for her views on gay marriage.
Results of the latest Monmouth University/Gallup poll on the US presidential race.
Oil and gas company reports, financial data and analysis.
Oil and gas company reports, financial data and analysis.
President Donald Trump delivers his State of the Union address to a joint session of Congress on Tuesday.
Rubio talked about how he hopes to stand out in the 2016 presidential field, Indiana's religious freedom law, the president's deal with Iran, immigration policy, and America's warming relationship with Cuba. Rubio talked about how he hopes to stand out in the 2016 presidential field, Indiana's religious freedom
The US Senate's website contains a wide range of information about the Senate, its members, and the legislative process.
The top Republican and Democrat on the House and Senate intelligence committees say the U.S. will not be able to sustain any victories in Iraq unless the government is able to resolve its political differences.
The US Department of Agriculture's (USDA) Agricultural Marketing Service (AMS) is responsible for administration and enforcement of Country of Origin Labeling ( COOL).
A selection of photos from around the world this week:
BBC Sport takes a look back at some of the most memorable moments from this year's FA Cup.
How much do you know about marijuana today?
As hype around Democratic presidential candidate Bernie Sanders grows, political opponents and media reporters are once again suggesting the socialist Vermont senator is a gun nut.
How complicated is the tax code?
In part five of the second democratic primary debate, things get personal as the candidates touch on the Black Lives Matter movement, Hillary Clinton's email scandal and Bernie Sanders' ability to win over conservatives In part five of the second democratic primary debate, things get personal as the candidates touch on the Black Lives Matter movement
The full text of this story is available to print and online subscribers of CQ Press.
In the wake of the Paris attacks, Florida Sen.
It was the moment that changed the world.
A selection of photos from around the world this week:
The full text of this story is available to print and online subscribers of CQ Press.
The full text of this story is available to print and online subscribers of CQ Press.
"We have become a nation of crises," said Herman Cain.
Gun control advocates often cite the statistic that 90 percent of Americans support expanding background checks for gun purchases.
The full text of this story is available to print and online subscribers of CQ Press.
The United States has long been a leader in welcoming people fleeing global persecution and the arrival on Monday of the 10,000th Syrian refugee is a further expression of this leadership.
"Most of the heroin in the United States comes from Mexico," a Republican senator told a Senate panel on March 8.
The full text of this story is available to print and online subscribers of CQ Press.
A selection of photos from around the world this week:
Gun violence is by far the leading cause of death for young African-American men, outstripping the next nine causes of death combined.
A selection of photos from around the world this week:
Suspected terrorists will be offered the H1N1 vaccine despite a shortage of the vaccine for Americans.
The fatal shooting of a black man by a police officer in Minnesota has thrust the issue of racial profiling back into the national spotlight.
It's not often you see someone stand up and say, "Tax me more!" Yet that's just what famed investor Warren Buffett has done in an op-ed in the New York Times headlined, "Stop Coddling the Super-Rich."
"Most of the heroin in the United States comes from Mexico," a Republican senator told a Senate panel on March 8.
President-elect Donald Trump heads to the White House after an earthquake few expected.
There’s a good chance you’ve heard this one before.
A selection of photos from around the world this week:
President-elect Donald Trump’s transition team has told congressional Republican leaders that his preference is to fund the border wall through the appropriations process, according to House Republican officials.
In Case You Missed It: A round-up of interesting Iowa-related links shared over the weekend.
President Donald Trump gave an Oval Office interview to The Associated Press on Friday, the 100th day of his presidency.
Does China have "total control" over North Korea?
A selection of photos from around the world this week:
On "Fox News Sunday," we begin with the Manchester bombing.
A selection of photos from around the world this week:
BBC Sport takes a look back at some of the most memorable moments from this year's FA Cup.
This amendment to the United States Constitution is signed into law by the President of the United States.
More than 30 states are suing the Trump administration over its decision to end the Obama-era Deferred Action for Childhood Arrivals (DACA) program.
Here is the full text of House Speaker Nancy Pelosi’s remarks on the state of the union:
The National Federation of Independent Business (NFIB) has released the results of its monthly survey of small business owners.
A selection of photos from around the world this week:
All photographs are copyrighted.
The US Senate's website contains a wide range of information about the Senate, its members, and the legislative process.
Candy Crowley, senior White House correspondent for the New York Times, joins us from the White House.
A selection of photos from around the world this week:
All photographs are copyrighted.
The full text of this story is available to print and online subscribers of CQ Press.
The full text of this story is available to print and online subscribers of CQ Press.
A selection of photos from around the world this week:
Here is the full exchange between Republican presidential hopefuls Mitt Romney and New Hampshire's Tom Fahey.
Here is the full exchange between Republican presidential hopefuls Mitt Romney and New Hampshire's Tom Fahey.
Republican Christine O’Donnell and Democrat Chris Coons are in a tight race for Delaware’s open Senate seat.
The US Department of Health and Human Services (HHS) has released its latest report on children’s health insurance.
A selection of photos from around the world this week:
A selection of photos from around the world this week:
Democratic presidential candidates Hillary Clinton, Barack Obama and John Edwards answered questions from CNN's Wolf Blitzer, Joe Johns and Suzanne Malveaux in a debate sponsored by CNN and the Congressional Black Caucus Institute, Monday night.
The US Senate's website contains a wide range of information about the Senate, its members, and the legislative process.
Social Security is a federal entitlement program.
The latest opinion polls on New Jersey Governor Chris Christie, who is considering a run for president in 2016.
Sorry, the page you were looking for has not been found.
In the wake of the deadly shooting at Fort Hood, Texas, we've been hearing a lot about why President Obama has not used the phrase "war on terrorism" in his public statements.
Hillary Clinton and Barack Obama face off in a high-stakes debate, Thursday night.
Here is the full text of President Barack Obama’s speech at the University of Texas at El Paso.
A selection of photos from around the world this week:
A selection of photos from around the world this week:
The Nobel Peace Prize has been awarded 104 times to 141 Nobel Prize laureates between 1901 and 2023
CNN's Campbell Brown moderated a Compassion Forum with Democratic presidential candidates Hillary Clinton and Barack Obama at Messiah College in Grantham, Pennsylvania.
Congressional Quarterly (CQ) is the most trusted source of news and analysis on Capitol Hill.
The full text of this story is available to print and online subscribers of CQ Press.
Ronald Reagan was a Democrat before he was a Republican.
Congressional Quarterly (CQ) is the most trusted source of news and analysis on Capitol Hill.
This chart from the US Bureau of Labor Statistics shows the decline in household income during the Great Recession.
A selection of photos from around the world this week:
The full text of President Barack Obama’s speech to students at Scranton High School in Pennsylvania.
All clips are copyrighted.
"Crying over spilt milk."
Akun demo slot x500 berbeda selalu dicari para penggemar slot uang asli.
CNN projects Mitt Romney the winner of the Nevada caucuses.
A selection of photos from around the world this week:
The Ohio Art Company, a business and community leader for more than 100 years, announced today that it has sold its Etch A Sketch and Doodle Sketch brands in a move designed to allow it to focus on its metal lithography business and invest in its manufacturing operations in Bryan.
Here is the full text of President Obama’s remarks at the Rose Garden on Wednesday.
The full text of Democratic presidential candidate Barack Obama's speech at the Associated Press annual convention.
Here is the full text of President Barack Obama's Rose Garden statement on gas prices on Wednesday.
Here is the full text of Michelle Obama's speech at the Democratic National Convention.
On Friday's State of the Union, CNN's Candy Crowley interviewed Senate Republican leader Mitch McConnell and Obama campaign senior adviser Robert Gibbs.
Democratic presidential candidate Barack Obama delivers the commencement address at Colorado College in Colorado Springs, Colorado.
.
The claim that Obama has apologised for America has been used and reused countless times, but this incarnation is only a hair closer to the truth.
We’ve been hearing a lot about Medicare over the past few days.
.
BBC Sport takes a look back at some of the most memorable moments from this year's FA Cup.
A selection of photos from around the world this week:
President Barack Obama and former Massachusetts Governor Mitt Romney are taking part in their first presidential debate.
President Barack Obama promised on the campaign trail that he would "strongly support" an immigration bill in his first year in office.
The Obama campaign says Republican Mitt Romney has changed his position on coal since he was governor of Massachusetts.
Mitt Romney's campaign refused to say whether he supported the Lilly Ledbetter Fair Pay Act, which made it easier for workers to pursue wage discrimination claims but received little Republican support in Congress.
President Barack Obama signed into law the Patient Protection and Affordable Care Act (P.L.
If you have any questions about the reuse of NAP content, please contact our Customer Service Department at customer_service@nap.edu.
The United States has no closer Ally than the United Kingdom.
Senator Rand Paul’s (R-KY) amendment that would prohibit U.S. foreign assistance to the Palestinian Authority or any other Palestinian governing entity in the West Bank and Gaza, unless the President certifies to Congress that they have:
In Case You Missed It: A round-up of interesting links shared over the weekend.
Mark Barden, father of Daniel Barden, one of the 20 children killed at Sandy Hook Elementary School in Newtown, Conn.
Mark Barden, father of Daniel Barden, one of the 20 children killed at Sandy Hook Elementary School in Newtown, Conn.
The full text of this story is available to print and online subscribers of CQ Press.
The US Senate's website contains a wide range of information about the Senate, its members, and the legislative process.
Republican presidential candidate John McCain has been accused of flip-flopping on climate change.
Candidates John McCain and Barack Obama meet for their second debate on Tuesday night. NASHVILLE, Tennessee (CNN) -- Presidential candidates John McCain and Barack Obama debated in Nashville, Tennessee, on Tuesday night.
"Nobody has mandated" health care?
A selection of photos from around the world this week:
The full text of this story is available to print and online subscribers of CQ Press.
The full text of this story is available to print and online subscribers of CQ Press.
ReCAPA will not share your personal information with third parties.
President Barack Obama delivers the commencement address at Knox College in Galesburg, Illinois.
President Barack Obama delivers the commencement address at Knox College in Galesburg, Illinois.
The third and final presidential debate took place on Wednesday night at Hofstra University in New York. Barack Obama faced off at Hofstra University Wednesday night in their last debate before Election Day.
The full text of this story is available to print and online subscribers of CQ Press.
The full text of this story is available to print and online subscribers of CQ Press.
Crossfire with Joe Lieberman, Rick Santorum and S.E. Cupp
Congressional Quarterly (CQ) is the most trusted source of news and analysis on Capitol Hill.
In our series of letters from Italian journalists, film-maker and columnist Andrea Tornielli looks at the controversy over the Obama administration’s requirement that Catholic employers provide health insurance that includes abortion, sterilization and contraception services.
Congressional Quarterly (CQ) is the most trusted source of news and analysis on Capitol Hill.
US oil production reached its highest level in seven years in 2010.
US oil production reached its highest level in seven years in 2010.
Oil and gas companies rely on Wood Mackenzie to help them unlock the value of their assets.
Two of Kentucky's most prominent politicians are at odds over the role of money in politics.
In an op-ed published in Newsweek, President Obama reflects on the impact of Title IX, a law that prohibits gender discrimination in education.
A selection of photos from around the world this week: