Recorded Future's Insikt Group has discovered a new malwar campaign targeting the Cambodian government using anAssociation of Southeast Asian Nations (ASEAN)-themed spearphish. Using Recorded Future RAT controller detections andNetwork Traffic Analysis, insikt Group identified new operational infrastructure that we attribute to the Vietnamese state-sponsored threat activity group APT32, also known as Oceanlotus. This assessment is also supported by the identificationof several Cambodian victim organizations communicating with this infrastructure, and aligns with previous campaignstargeting these organizations Vietnam and Cambodia have a long history of confict, dating back to the Sino-Vietnamese War of the 1970s, when Vietnambegan retaliatory attacks on China's "litle brother" Cambodia. n 2017, Vietnam started strengthening its cyber warfare capabilitieswith the formation of APT32, which targeted ASEANs website during the 2017 annual summit, as well as targeting websites ofministries or govemment agencies in Cambodia, Lao PDR, and the Philippines. In recent years, the relationship between Vietnam and Cambodia has deteriorated in part because of China's Belt and Roadlnitiatives (BR) in the region. As Cambodian Prime Minister Hun Sen has grown closer to Chinese President Xi Jinping, thetwo have strengthened the partnerships between the two countries, pushing Vietnam out of critical regional cooperativesChinese investments in Cambodia include critical infrastructure, joint military exercises in the South China Sea, and a newproperty development just North of Ream Naval Base, strategically located on the Gulf of Thailand between Vietnamand Cambodia. In June 2020, Insikt Group reported on new APT32 operational infrastructure identified through a proprietary method oftracking malware activity associated with APT32, such as METALJACK and DenisRAT. Using this same methodology, insiktGroup has continued to identify new, active APT32 IP addresses and associated domains. Insikt researchers discovered several samples that are a part of this campaign: Sample 1: The first sample is delivered via a malicious document titled,"urnahwsHSngW USi Saninrw fuuufiunmli auinyn.docx-[.]exe" which translates to "list of Foreign Military Attachments and Office of Military Cooperation in Cambodia.docx-[.]exe" This sample, likely delivered via spearphishing, is a self-extracting archive (SFX) containing four files. Upon execution of the SFX, the Apple executable loads the benign DLl. betore loading the malicious DLL, which is stored in the SoftwareUpdateFilesResources/en.proj file path. The malicious DLl. then extracts the encrypted shelcode from the SoftwareUpdateFile.locale file and decrypts and executes it, while displaying a decoy document to the user (an MicrosoftWord document displaying an "activation error), eventually loading the final payload. This loading process matches APT32 activity previously reported by insikt Group and Ahnlab in relation to an APT32 sample referencing the 2020 ASEAN Summit. Further analysis of these artifacts for identification of the malware family isongoing within Insikt Group and updates will be posted as more samples are analyzed. Sample 2: A second sample, uploaded to a malware repository on 0ctober 22, 2020, uses this same loading process andcommunicates with one of the identified C2 domains, cloud.bussinesappinstant[Jcom. in this sample, the SFX file is called "9 Programme SOMCA-Japan_FINAL.docx-.exe" likely in reference to the ASEAN SeniorOficials Meeting for Culture and Arts (SOMICA), indicating APT32's continued interest in the targeting of ASEAN and othermember states. This archive file drops the same "SoftwareUpdateFileslocalized.dl" file seen in the previous sample. In addition to the TTf(tactics, techniques, procedures) and infrastructure overlaps, the malicious DLLs linked to this latest sample share an identicarich header and import hash seen in historical APT32 samples lnsikt Group identified further evidence of targeting of Cambodia through several lP addresses assigned to a Cambodiangovernment organization regularly communicating with the APT32 C2 IP address 43.254.132[]212. Recorded Future recommends using the following indicators of compromise from this campaign for detection and defenseagainst this malware. Additionally, Insikt Group has provided a YARA rule for detection, below. For more insight into state-sponsored cyber threats, visit www.recordedfuture.com/category/research