Roula Khalaf, Editor of the FT, selects her favourite stories in this weekly newsletter. Please use the sharing tools found via the share button at the top or side of articles. Copying articles to share with others is a breach of FT.com T&Cs and Copyright Policy. Email licensing@ft.com to buy additional rights. Subscribers may share up to 10 or 20 articles per month using the gift article service. More information can be found at https://www.ft.com/tour. https://www.ft.com/content/bc184de4-6c68-11dc-a0cf-0000779fd2ac Britain’s system of financial oversight has failed its first big test and left the country looking like a “banana republic” in the aftermath of the Northern Rock crisis, the head of the CBI employers’ organisation said last night. However, Richard Lambert, director-general, warned the government against the knee-jerk remedy of “heavy-handed regulation”, which he said risked stifling competition. Speaking to business leaders at a CBI dinner in Newcastle upon Tyne, Northern Rock’s home town, Mr Lambert added his voice to growing criticism of the tripartite arrangement under which responsibility for financial stability is carved up between the Treasury, the Financial Services Authority, the regulator, and the Bank of England. “For whatever reason, this system has failed to deliver the goods,” he said. “Perhaps there are just too many conflicts inherent in a system where three different institutions, with three different policy priorities, have to come together to tackle a fast-moving crisis.” Mr Lambert said the run on Northern Rock had “tarnished” the country’s reputation as a world financial leader. Alistair Darling, chancellor, had “effectively socialised the banking system” to restore confidence. Unusually, Mr Lambert, who until last year sat on the Bank’s monetary policy committee, was critical of Mervyn King, Bank governor. “The crisis has not been well handled by those responsible: the government and the City authorities.” While acknowledging the governor, Mr Darling and Sir Callum McCarthy, chairman of the FSA, as “intelligent, hard-working people doing their best to serve the public interest”, he said Mr King’s attempts to blame legislation was an inadequate explanation of the failures of the system. “It’s not enough to say, as the governor did last week, that the main difficulties in fixing the problem had been created by the complexity of today’s company law, and by our system of deposit guarantees – you don’t wait for the cinema to catch fire before you check out whether the fire precautions are going to work,” he said. But a return to “good, old-fashioned banking”, a sentiment Mr Darling had expressed days before the run on Northern Rock, would mean “a world of cartels and rationed loans. A world where only the well-heeled had access to credit . . . I’d prefer to return to old-fashioned bank supervision,” Mr Lambert said. He called for the government to identify which body should have overriding authority in a crisis and “to consider whether the regulator needs more authority to examine a lender’s business model, and how the legal complications identified by the governor can be fixed”. The lender of last resort process – the Bank’s support system under which it handed Northern Rock a financial lifeline – would also have to be reassessed. “No institution will ever go down that route again if it remains unchanged. What happened to Northern Rock is just too grim a precedent,” said Mr Lambert.