Since at least mid-2019 through early 2021, Russian General Staff Main Intelligence Directorate (GRU) 85th Main Special Service Center (GTsSS), military unit 26165, used a Kubernetes® cluster to conduct widespread, distributed, and anonymized brute force access attempts against hundreds of government and private sector targets worldwide. GTsSS malicious cyber activity has previously been attributed by the private sector using the names Fancy Bear, APT28, Strontium, and a variety of other identifiers. The 85th GTsSS directed a significant amount of this activity at organizations using Microsoft Office 365® cloud services; however, they also targeted other service providers and on premises email servers using a variety of different protocols. These efforts are almost certainly still ongoing. This brute force capability allows the 85th GTsSS actors to access protected data, including email, and identify valid account credentials. Those credentials may then be used for a variety of purposes, including initial access, persistence, privilege escalation, and defense evasion. The actors have used identified account credentials in conjunction with exploiting publicly known vulnerabilities, such as exploiting Microsoft Exchange servers using CVE 2020-0688 and CVE 2020-17144, for remote code execution and further access to target networks. After gaining remote access, many well-known tactics, techniques, and procedures (TTPs) are combined to move laterally, evade defenses, and collect additional information within target networks. Network managers should adopt and expand usage of multi-factor authentication to help counter the effectiveness of this capability. Additional mitigations to ensure strong access controls include time-out and lock-out features, the mandatory use of strong passwords, implementation of a Zero Trust security model that uses additional attributes when determining access, and analytics to detect anomalous accesses. Additionally, organizations can consider denying all inbound activity from known anonymization services, such as commercial virtual private networks (VPNs) and The Onion Router (TOR), where such access is not associated with typical use. This campaign has already targeted hundreds of U.S. and foreign organizations worldwide, including U.S. government and Department of Defense entities. While the sum of the targeting is global in nature, the capability has predominantly focused on entities in the U.S. and Europe. Types of targeted organizations include:The actors used a combination of known TTPs in addition to their password spray operations to exploit target networks, access additional credentials, move laterally, and collect, stage, and exfiltrate data, as illustrated in the figure below. The actors used a variety of protocols, including HTTP(S), IMAP(S), POP3, and NTLM. The actors also utilized different combinations of defense evasion TTPs in an attempt to disguise some components of their operations; however, many detection opportunities remain viable to identify the malicious activity. The following table summarizes the known TTPs used in conjunction with the password spray capability. As the structure of target networks can vary greatly, the 85th GTsSS may employ a subset of these TTPs, or other TTPs not included in this summary, against different victims. In an attempt to obfuscate its true origin and to provide a degree of anonymity, the Kubernetes cluster normally routes brute force authentication attempts through TOR and commercial VPN services, including CactusVPN, IPVanish®, NordVPN®, ProtonVPN®, Surfshark®, and WorldVPN. Authentication attempts that did not use TOR or a VPN service were also occasionally delivered directly to targets from nodes in the Kubernetes cluster. The scalable nature of the password spray capability means that specific indicators of compromise (IOC) can be easily altered to bypass IOC-based mitigation. In addition to blocking activity associated with the specific indicators listed in this Cybersecurity Advisory, organizations should consider denying all inbound activity from known TOR nodes and other public VPN services to exchange servers or portals where such access is not associated with typical use. Although the exact makeup of the Kubernetes cluster may change over time, a number of nodes have been identified as responsible for sending and routing the brute force authentication attempts. At some point between November 2020 and March 2021, the following IP addresses were identified as corresponding to nodes in the Kubernetes cluster:In cases where HTTP was the underlying protocol used to deliver authentication requests, the actors used many different User-Agent strings, which are crafted to appear consistent with those sent by legitimate client software. Some of the User-Agent strings delivered in the authentication requests are incomplete or truncated versions of legitimate User-Agent strings, offering the following unique detection opportunities:The following Yara rule matches the reGeorg variant web shell used by the actors. As this is a publicly available web shell, the rule does not uniquely identify 85th GTsSS malicious activity.As with mitigations for other credential theft techniques, organizations can take the following measures to ensure strong access control: The information and opinions contained in this document are provided "as is" and without any warranties or guarantees. Reference herein to any specific commercial products, process, or service by trade name, trademark, manufacturer, or otherwise, does not constitute or imply its endorsement, recommendation, or favoring by the United States Government, and this guidance shall not be used for advertising or product endorsement purposes. Active Directory, Microsoft Exchange, Office 365, Office, Outlook, OWA, Powershell, Windows, and Windows NT® are registered trademarks of Microsoft Corporation. • Kubernetes is a registered trademark of the Linux Foundation. • WinRAR is a registered trademark of Roshal, Alexander. • IPVanish is a registered trademark of Mudhook Marketing, Inc. • NordVPN is a registered trademark of NORDSEC PLC. • ProtonVPN is a registered trademark of Proton Technologies AG. • Surfshark is a registered trademark of SURFSHARK LTD. • Firefox® and Mozilla® and are registered trademarks of Mozilla Foundation. • Chrome® is a registered trademark of Google, Inc. • Mac® and WebKit® are registered trademarks of Apple, Inc.