Since my last blog颅post on MuddyWater operations, they seem to have been continuing their activities and as expected developing/changing some of their tactics and techniques. It is still apparent their heavy focus on layered obfuscation and preference for PowerShell. However, I will highlight what changed based on the sample that I will be analyzing. This started with the sample "idrbt.doc" IDRBT stands for Institute for Development and Research in Banking Technology which according to Wikipedia is an institution exclusively focused on Banking Technology. Established by the Reserve Bank of India (RBI) in 1996, the Institution works at the intersection of Banking and Technology. It is located in Hyderabad, India. Right from carrying out cutting颅edge Development and Research, enabling creation of technology infrastructure to moulding the technology talent required for Banking Sector, the institution enables technology transformation of the Indian Banking and Financial Sector. Looking at this lure document might give you an indication of potential targets that the group might be focusing in this wave.My focus in this blog is to look at what changed in terms of the techniques used by the group to achieve their objective which can be summarized as the following: The POWERSTATS payload that this group relies on is heavily obfuscated. The code is first embedded within the macro code as a double Base64 encoded variable.Once decoded you will be presented with the more familiar InvokeExpression/Invoke/Obfuscation PowerShell script that MuddyWater relies on.As part of analyzing the document, I came across some interesting strings. In particular, the document included this string "CMG = "21238DCB91CB91CE96CE96"". Googling this string returns only 3 results directing to the following sites:As of the writing of this blog, all three links seem to redirect to just a web page rather a DOC file. However, looking at some cached results for the third link, The page looked interesting as it contained further interesting strings within it:I actually do not know if this is anything or if I stumbled upon anything related or not but it just seems interesting to me. One thing to notice that most of the returned results seems to be Chinese sites. This continues to shows that MuddyWater group are continuously evolving their techniques. Again, the different lures and methods used by this group continue to show that they might have a wide focus on multiple verticals and industries. Below you will find a list of IoCs from my analysis and I am sure others will be able to dig deeper into this an uncover further details. Hope this is of help and benefit.