On September 6, $ymantec publlshed detalls of the Dragonfly campaign, which targeted dozens of energy companlesthroughout 2017. This attack was effectively Dragonfly 2.0, an update to a campalgn that began in 2014. Moving beyond our 2014 analysis of Dragonfly, (https:/securingtomorrow.mcafee.com/mcafee-labs/operation-dragonfly.imperls-industrlal-protocol/ our current focus looks at the attack's indicators to determine whether we can glean anyfurther information regarding, the source and posslble motivatlons of those behind the campalgn. The campalgn targetsenergy companies around the world by leveraging spear-phishing emalls that, once successful, allow the attackers todownload Trolan software, The Trolans provide access to the victims' systems and networks.Although initial reports showed Dragonfly attacks targeting the energy sector, investigations by McAfee Labs and theAdvanced Threat Research team uncovered related attacks targeting the pharmaceutical, financlal, and accountingndustries. Everything about this campalgn points to a wel-prepared assauit that carefully considers each target, andconductsreconnaissance perore taking an'comoromised targets. We saw the group use several techniques to get a foothold in victims networks, including spear phishing, watering holes,prevlous campalens.By compromising well-established softwareand exploits of supply-chalrare installing software from auinera oltruste0 vend once t.Using the remote-desktopWOtoCoriskis minimal or use an internal compromised server to conduct operations.The last wave of attacks used several backdoors and utilities. In analyzing the samples, we compared these with McAfee’s threat intelligence knowledge base of attack artifacts. One of the starting points was a Trojan in the 2017 campaign with the following hashes: The file was downloaded after a java exploit executed on the victim's machine, according to the 2013 attack report, Afteranalyzing the 2013 sample, we noticed that some of the executable's resources were in Russian. Comparing the code, we find the 2017 sample has a large percentage of the same code as the backdoor used in the 2013attacks. Further, some code in the 2017 backdoor is identical to code in the application TeamViewer, a legitimate remoteadministration tool used by many around the world, By incorporating the code and in-memory execution, the attackers avoid detection and leave no trace on disk. The correlating hash we discovered that contained the same TeamViewer code was reported by Crysys, a Hungariansecurity company, in thelr report on about "leamspy," (http://www,crysys.hu/teamspy/teamspy.pdt) they mentioned thehash we correlated as wel: 708ceccae2c27e32637fd29451 aef4a5. This particular sample had the following compile date details:2011:09:07-09:27:58+01:00 The Teamspy attacks were originally aimed at political and human right activists living in the Commonwealth ofIndependent States (the former Soviet Union) and eastern European countries. Although the report attributes the attacksto a threat actor or actors and shared tactics and procedures, the motivations behind TeamSpy appear similar to those ofthe Dragonfly group. With identical code reuse, could the TeamSpy campaign be the work of Dragonfly? But that's not all of interest, We also discovered that the 2017 sample contained code blocks associated with anotherinteresting malware family: BlackEnergy. Let's look at an example of the code similarities we discovered:Self-deleting code is very common in malware, but it is usually implemented by creating a batch file and executing thebatch instead of directly calling the delete command, as we see in the preceding examples. The BlackEnergy sample used in our comparison was captured in the Ukraine on October 31, 2015, and was mentioned inour post (https:/securingtomorrow,mcafee.com/mcafee-labs/updated-blackenergy-troian-grows-more-powerful/) on theevolution of the BlackEnergy Trojan, it is remarkable that this piece of code is almost identical in both samples, andsuggests a correlation between the BlackEnergy and Dragonfly campaigns.Our analysis of this attack tells a story about the actors' capability and skills. Their attack precision is very good; they knowwhom and what to attack, using a variety of efforts. Their focus is on Windows systems and they use wellknown practicesto gather information and credentials, From our research, we have seen the evolution of the code in their backdoors andthe reuse of code in their campaigns. How well do the actors cover their tracks? We conclude they are fairly sophisticated in hiding detalls of their attacks, and insome cases in leaving details behind to either mislead or make a statement. We rate threat actors by scoring them indifferent categories; we have mentioned a few, The Dragonfly group is in the top echelon of targeting attackers; it iscritical that those in the targeted sectors be aware of them. The Dragonfly group is most lilkely after intellectual property or insights into the sector they target, with the ability to takeoffensive disruptive and destructive action, as was reported (http:/www.silicon.co.uk/security/blackenergy-trojan-ukrainepower-183050?inf by=5a291109671db830108b4a17) in the 2015 attack on the Ukrainian power grid by a BlackEnergymalware family. We would like to thank the team at Intezer for their assistance and support during our research.