Blue Mockingbird is a cluster of observed activity involving Monero cryptocurrency-mining payloads in dynamic-link library (DLL) form on Windows systems. The earliest observed Blue Mockingbird tools were created in December 2019.
Blue Mockingbird has used JuicyPotato to abuse the SeImpersonate token privilege to escalate from web application pool accounts to NT Authority\SYSTEM.
Blue Mockingbird has used PowerShell reverse TCP shells to issue interactive commands over a network connection.
Blue Mockingbird has used batch script files to automate execution and deployment of payloads.
Blue Mockingbird has made their XMRIG payloads persistent as a Windows Service.
Blue Mockingbird has used mofcomp.exe to establish WMI Event Subscription persistence mechanisms configured from a *.mof file.
Blue Mockingbird has gained initial access by exploiting CVE-2019-18935, a vulnerability within Telerik UI for ASP.NET AJAX.
Blue Mockingbird has used wmic.exe and Windows Registry modifications to set the COR_PROFILER environment variable to execute a malicious DLL whenever a process loads the .NET CLR.
Blue Mockingbird has masqueraded their XMRIG payload name by naming it wercplsupporte.dll after the legitimate wercplsupport.dll file.
Blue Mockingbird has used Windows Registry modifications to specify a DLL payload.
Blue Mockingbird has obfuscated the wallet address in the payload binary.
Blue Mockingbird has obtained and used tools such as Mimikatz.
Blue Mockingbird has used Mimikatz to retrieve credentials from LSASS memory.
Blue Mockingbird has used frp, ssf, and Venom to establish SOCKS proxy connections.
Blue Mockingbird has used Remote Desktop to log on to servers interactively and manually copy files to remote hosts.
Blue Mockingbird has used Windows Explorer to manually copy malicious files to remote hosts over SMB.
Blue Mockingbird has used XMRIG to mine cryptocurrency on victim systems.
Blue Mockingbird has used Windows Scheduled Tasks to establish persistence on local and remote hosts.
Blue Mockingbird has executed custom-compiled XMRIG miner DLLs using regsvr32.exe.
Blue Mockingbird has executed custom-compiled XMRIG miner DLLs using rundll32.exe.
Blue Mockingbird has collected hardware details for the victim's system, including CPU and memory information.
Blue Mockingbird has executed custom-compiled XMRIG miner DLLs by configuring them to execute via the "wercplsupport" service.
Blue Mockingbird has used wmic.exe to set environment variables.
