Ember Bear is a suspected Russian state-sponsored cyber espionage group that has been active since at least March 2021. Ember Bear has primarily focused their operations against Ukraine and Georgia, but has also targeted Western European and North American foreign ministries, pharmaceutical companies, and financial sector organizations. Security researchers assess Ember Bear likely conducted the WhisperGate destructive wiper attacks against Ukraine in early 2022.
Ember Bear has used PowerShell to download and execute malicious code.
Ember Bear had used cmd.exe and Windows Script Host (wscript) to execute malicious code.
Ember Bear has used JavaScript to execute malicious code on a victim's machine.
Ember Bear has exploited Microsoft Office vulnerability CVE-2017-11882.
Ember Bear has executed a batch script designed to disable Windows Defender on a compromised host.
Ember Bear has used tools to download malicious code.
Ember Bear has used an open source batch script to modify Windows Defender registry keys.
Ember Bear has obfuscated malware to help avoid detection.
Ember Bear has added extra spaces between JavaScript code characters to increase the overall file size.
Ember Bear has packed malware to help avoid detection.
Ember Bear has obfuscated malicious scripts to help avoid detection.
Ember Bear has obtained and used open source scripts from GitHub.
Ember Bear has stolen legitimate certificates to sign malicious payloads.
Ember Bear has sent spearphishing emails containing malicious attachments in the form of PDFs, Word documents, JavaScript files, and Control Panel File (CPL) executables.
Ember Bear has sent spearphishing emails containing malicious links.
Ember Bear has used stolen certificates from Electrum Technologies GmbH to sign payloads.
Ember Bear has used control panel files (CPL), delivered via e-mail, for execution.
Ember Bear has attempted to lure users to click on a malicious link within a spearphishing email.
Ember Bear has attempted to lure victims into executing malicious files.
Ember Bear has used Discord's content delivery network (CDN) to deliver malware and malicious scripts to a compromised host.
