FIN13 is a financially motivated cyber threat group that has targeted the financial, retail, and hospitality industries in Mexico and Latin America, as early as 2016. FIN13 achieves its objectives by stealing intellectual property, financial data, mergers and acquisition information, or PII.
FIN13 has utilized tools such as Incognito V2 for token manipulation and impersonation.
FIN13 has enumerated all users and their roles from a victim's main treasury system.
FIN13 can identify user accounts associated with a Service Principal Name and query Service Principal Names within the domain by utilizing the following scripts: GetUserSPNs.vbs and querySpn.vbs.
FIN13 has assigned newly created accounts the sysadmin role to maintain persistence.
FIN13 has used HTTP requests to chain multiple web shells and to contact actor-controlled C2 servers prior to exfiltrating stolen data.
FIN13 has compressed the dump output of compromised credentials with a 7zip binary.
FIN13 has used Windows Registry run keys such as, HKEY_LOCAL_MACHINE\SOFTWARE\WOW6432Node\Microsoft\Windows\CurrentVersion\Run\hosts to maintain persistence.
FIN13 has used PowerShell commands to obtain DNS data from a compromised network.
FIN13 has leveraged xp_cmdshell and Windows Command Shell to execute commands on a compromised machine. FIN13 has also attempted to leverage the ‘xp_cmdshell’ SQL procedure to execute remote commands on internal MS-SQL servers.
FIN13 has used VBS scripts for code execution on comrpomised machines.
FIN13 has created MS-SQL local accounts in a compromised network.
FIN13 has gathered stolen credentials, sensitive data such as point-of-sale (POS), and ATM data from a compromised network before exfiltration.
FIN13 has injected fraudulent transactions into compromised networks that mimic legitimate behavior to siphon off incremental amounts of money.
FIN13 has utilized the following temporary folders on compromised Windows and Linux systems for their operations prior to exfiltration: C:\Windows\Temp and /tmp.
FIN13 has utilized certutil to decode base64 encoded versions of custom malware.
FIN13 has utilized custom malware to maintain persistence in a compromised environment.
FIN13 has exploited known vulnerabilities such as CVE-2017-1000486 (Primefaces Application Expression Language Injection), CVE-2015-7450 (WebSphere Application Server SOAP Deserialization Exploit), CVE-2010-5326 (SAP NewWeaver Invoker Servlet Exploit), and EDB-ID-24963 (SAP NetWeaver ConfigServlet Remote Code Execution) to gain initial access.
FIN13 has gained access to compromised environments via remote access services such as the corporate virtual private network (VPN).
FIN13 has used the Windows dir command to enumerate files and directories in a victim's network.
FIN13 has observed the victim's software and infrastructure over several months to understand the technical process of legitimate financial transactions, prior to attempting to conduct fraudulent transactions.
FIN13 has researched employees to target for social engineering attacks.
FIN13 has searched for infrastructure that can provide remote access to an environment for targeting efforts.
FIN13 has created hidden files and folders within a compromised Linux system /tmp directory. FIN13 also has used attrib.exe to hide gathered local host information.
FIN13 has used IISCrack.dll as a side-loading technique to load a malicious version of httpodbc.dll on old IIS Servers (CVE-2001-0507).
FIN13 has downloaded additional tools and malware to compromised systems.
FIN13 has logged the keystrokes of victims to escalate privileges.
FIN13 has masqueraded staged data by using the Windows certutil utility to generate fake Base64 encoded certificates with the input file.
FIN13 has used scheduled tasks names such as acrotyr and AppServicesr to mimic the same names in a compromised network's C:\Windows directory.
FIN13 has masqueraded WAR files to look like legitimate packages such as, wsexample.war, wsexamples.com, examples.war, and exampl3s.war.
FIN13 has replaced legitimate KeePass binaries with trojanized versions to collect passwords from numerous applications.
FIN13 has utilized nmap for reconnaissance efforts. FIN13 has also scanned for internal MS-SQL servers in a compromised network.
FIN13 has executed net view commands for enumeration of open shares on compromised machines.
FIN13 has utilized publicly available tools such as Mimikatz, Impacket, PWdump7, ProcDump, Nmap, and Incognito V2 for targeting efforts.
FIN13 has obtained memory dumps with ProcDump to parse and extract credentials from a victim's LSASS process memory with Mimikatz.
FIN13 has extracted the SAM and SYSTEM registry hives using the reg.exe binary for obtaining password hashes from a compromised machine.
FIN13 has harvested the NTDS.DIT file and leveraged the Impacket tool on the compromised domain controller to locally decrypt it.
FIN13 has enumerated all users and roles from a victim's main treasury system.
FIN13 has utilized web shells and Java tools for tunneling capabilities to and from compromised assets.
FIN13 has utilized a proxy tool to communicate between compromised assets.
FIN13 has remotely accessed compromised environments via Remote Desktop Services (RDS) for lateral movement.
FIN13 has leveraged SMB to move laterally within a compromised network via application servers and SQL servers.
FIN13 has remotely accessed compromised environments via secure shell (SSH) for lateral movement.
FIN13 has leveraged WMI to move laterally within a compromised network via application servers and SQL servers.
FIN13 has created scheduled tasks in the C:\Windows directory of the compromised network.
FIN13 has utilized obfuscated and open-source web shells such as JspSpy, reGeorg, MiniWebCmdShell, and Vonloesch Jsp File Browser 1.2 to enable remote code execution and to execute commands on compromised web server.
FIN13 has collected local host information by utilizing Windows commands systeminfo, fsutil, and fsinfo. FIN13 has also utilized a compromised Symantex Altiris console and LanDesk account to retrieve host information.
FIN13 has used nslookup and ipconfig for network reconnaissance efforts. FIN13 has also utilized a compromised Symantec Altiris console and LanDesk account to retrieve network information.
FIN13 has used Ping and tracert for network reconnaissance efforts.
FIN13 has used netstat and other net  commands for network reconnaissance efforts.
FIN13 has obtained administrative credentials by browsing through local files on a compromised machine.
FIN13 has used the PowerShell utility Invoke-SMBExec to execute the pass the hash method for lateral movement within an compromised environment.
FIN13 has leveraged default credentials for authenticating myWebMethods (WMS) and QLogic web management interface to gain initial access.
FIN13 has utilized WMI to execute commands and move laterally on compromised Windows machines.
