TEMP.Veles is a Russia-based threat group that has targeted critical infrastructure. The group has been observed utilizing TRITON, a malware framework designed to manipulate industrial safety systems.
TEMP.Veles has used Virtual Private Server (VPS) infrastructure.
TEMP.Veles has used a publicly-available PowerShell-based tool, WMImplant. The group has also used PowerShell to perform Timestomping.
TEMP.Veles has created staging folders in directories that were infrequently used by legitimate users or processes.
TEMP.Veles has modified and added entries within HKEY_LOCAL_MACHINE\SOFTWARE\Microsoft\Windows NT\CurrentVersion\Image File Execution Options to maintain persistence.
TEMP.Veles has used a VPN to persist in the victim environment.
TEMP.Veles routinely deleted tools, logs, and other files after they were finished with them.
TEMP.Veles used timestomping to modify the $STANDARD_INFORMATION attribute on tools.
TEMP.Veles has renamed files to look like legitimate files, such as Windows update files or Schneider Electric application files.
TEMP.Veles has used port-protocol mismatches on ports such as 443, 4444, 8531, and 50501 during C2.
TEMP.Veles has modified files based on the open-source project cryptcat in an apparent attempt to decrease AV detection rates.
TEMP.Veles has obtained and used tools such as Mimikatz and PsExec.
TEMP.Veles has used Mimikatz and a custom tool, SecHack, to harvest credentials. 
TEMP.Veles utilized RDP throughout an operation.
TEMP.Veles has relied on encrypted SSH-based tunnels to transfer tools and for remote command/program execution.
TEMP.Veles has used scheduled task XML triggers.
TEMP.Veles has planted Web shells on Outlook Exchange servers.
TEMP.Veles has used compromised VPN accounts.
TEMP.Veles utilizes watering hole websites to target industrial employees. 
TEMP.Veles utilized remote desktop protocol (RDP) jump boxes to move into the ICS environment. 
TEMP.Veles targeted several ICS vendors and manufacturers. 
TEMP.Veles used valid credentials when laterally moving through RDP jump boxes into the ICS environment. 
