ZIRCONIUM is a threat group operating out of China, active since at least 2017, that has targeted individuals associated with the 2020 US presidential election and prominent leaders in the international affairs community.
ZIRCONIUM has purchased domains for use in targeted campaigns.
ZIRCONIUM has used GitHub to host malware linked in spearphishing e-mails.
ZIRCONIUM has created a Registry Run key named Dropbox Update Setup to establish persistence for a malicious Python binary.
ZIRCONIUM has used a tool to open a Windows Command Shell on a remote host.
ZIRCONIUM has used Python-based implants to interact with compromised hosts.
ZIRCONIUM has used a tool to steal credentials from installed web browsers including Microsoft Internet Explorer and Google Chrome.
ZIRCONIUM has used the AES256 algorithm with a SHA1 derived key to decrypt exploit code.
ZIRCONIUM has used AES encrypted communications in C2.
ZIRCONIUM has exfiltrated files via the Dropbox API C2.
ZIRCONIUM has exfiltrated stolen data to Dropbox.
ZIRCONIUM has exploited CVE-2017-0005 for local privilege escalation.
ZIRCONIUM has used tools to download malicious files to compromised hosts.
ZIRCONIUM has spoofed legitimate applications in phishing lures and changed file extensions to conceal  installation of malware.
ZIRCONIUM has created a run key named Dropbox Update Setup to mask a persistence mechanism for a malicious binary.
ZIRCONIUM has used multi-stage packers for exploit code.
ZIRCONIUM has used malicious links in e-mails to deliver malware.
ZIRCONIUM targeted presidential campaign staffers with credential phishing e-mails.
ZIRCONIUM has used web beacons in e-mails to track hits to attacker-controlled URL's.
ZIRCONIUM has used a tool to query the Registry for proxy settings.
ZIRCONIUM has used the msiexec.exe command-line utility to download and execute malicious MSI files.
ZIRCONIUM has used a tool to capture the processor architecture of a compromised host in order to register it with C2.
ZIRCONIUM has used a tool to enumerate proxy settings in the target environment.
ZIRCONIUM has used a tool to capture the username on a compromised host in order to register it with C2.
ZIRCONIUM has used a tool to capture the time on a compromised host in order to register it with C2.
ZIRCONIUM has used malicious links in e-mails to lure victims into downloading malware.
ZIRCONIUM has used Dropbox for C2 allowing upload and download of files as well as execution of arbitrary commands.
